UNITED STATES UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D. C. 20549 Washington, D. C. 20549 FORM FORM
Commission File Number Commission File Number, , , , () ( ) www. microsoft.
com/investor www. microsoft. com/investor www. microsoft. com/investor Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. ☒ No ☐ Indicate by check mark if the registrant
is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. ☒
No ☐ Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐ ☒ Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes ☐ ☒ Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such
shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)
has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. ☒ No ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. ☒ No ☐ Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to
be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232. 405 of this chapter)
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to submit such files). ☒ No ☐ Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to
be submitted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232. 405 of this chapter)
during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to submit such files). ☒ No ☐ Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the
definitions of “large accelerated filer, ” “accelerated filer, ” “smaller
reporting company, ” and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act. Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer,
an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or
an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer, ”
“accelerated filer, ” “smaller reporting company, ” and “emerging growth
company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. If an emerging growth company,
indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended
transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting
standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. ☐ If an
emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected
not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised
financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the
Exchange Act. ☐ Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report
on and attestation to its management’s assessment of the effectiveness of its
internal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act (15 U. S. C. 7262(b)) by the registered public accounting firm that
prepared or issued its audit report. Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management’s assessment
of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting under
Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U. S. C. 7262(b)) by the registered
public accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report. If securities
are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark
whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the filing
reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements. If
securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by
check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant included in the
filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial
statements. Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are
restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based compensation
received by any of the registrant’s executive officers during the relevant
recovery period pursuant to §240. 10D-1(b). ☐ Indicate by check mark whether any
of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of
incentive-based compensation received by any of the registrant’s executive
officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240. 10D-1(b). ☐
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in
Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes No ☒ Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes No ☒ As of
December 31, 2022, the aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock
held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $ trillion based on the closing
sale price as reported on the NASDAQ National Market System. As of July 24,
2023, there were shares of common stock outstanding. As of December 31, 2022,
the aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock held by non-
affiliates of the registrant was $ trillion based on the closing sale price as
reported on the NASDAQ National Market System. As of July 24, 2023, there were
shares of common stock outstanding. DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE MICROSOFT CORPORATION MICROSOFT CORPORATION
FORM 10-K FORM 10-K For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 2023 For the Fiscal Year
Ended June 30, 2023 INDEX INDEX 2 2 PART I PART I Item 1 Item 1 Note About
Forward-Looking Statements Note About Forward-Looking Statements This report
includes estimates, projections, statements relating to our business plans,
objectives, and expected operating results that are “forward-looking statements”
within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995,
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this
report, including the following sections: “Business” (Part I, Item 1 of this
Form 10-K), “Risk Factors” (Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K), and
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” (Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). These forward-looking
statements generally are identified by the words “believe, ” “project, ”
“expect, ” “anticipate, ” “estimate, ” “intend, ” “strategy, ” “future, ”
“opportunity, ” “plan, ” “may, ” “should, ” “will, ” “would, ” “will be, ” “will
continue, ” “will likely result, ” and similar expressions. Forward-looking
statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to
risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially. We
describe risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to
differ materially in “Risk Factors, ” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations, ” and “Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” (Part II, Item 7A of this Form 10-K).
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements,
which speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to
update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new
information, future events, or otherwise. This report includes estimates,
projections, statements relating to our business plans, objectives, and expected
operating results that are “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the
Securities Act of 1933, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Forward-looking statements may appear throughout this report, including the
following sections: “Business” (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K), “Risk
Factors” (Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K), and “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (Part II, Item 7 of
this Form 10-K). These forward-looking statements generally are identified by
the words “believe, ” “project, ” “expect, ” “anticipate, ” “estimate, ”
“intend, ” “strategy, ” “future, ” “opportunity, ” “plan, ” “may, ” “should, ”
“will, ” “would, ” “will be, ” “will continue, ” “will likely result, ” and
similar expressions. Forward-looking statements are based on current
expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties that
may cause actual results to differ materially. We describe risks and
uncertainties that could cause actual results and events to differ materially in
“Risk Factors, ” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations, ” and “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about
Market Risk” (Part II, Item 7A of this Form 10-K). Readers are cautioned not to
place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the
date they are made. We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any
forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events,
or otherwise. 3 3 PART I PART I Item 1 Item 1 PART I PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS
ITEM 1. B USINESS GENERAL GENERAL Embracing Our Future Embracing Our Future
Microsoft is a technology company whose mission is to empower every person and
every organization on the planet to achieve more. We strive to create local
opportunity, growth, and impact in every country around the world. We are
creating the platforms and tools, powered by artificial intelligence (“AI”),
that deliver better, faster, and more effective solutions to support small and
large business competitiveness, improve educational and health outcomes, grow
public-sector efficiency, and empower human ingenuity. From infrastructure and
data, to business applications and collaboration, we provide unique,
differentiated value to customers. Microsoft is a technology company whose
mission is to empower every person and every organization on the planet to
achieve more. We strive to create local opportunity, growth, and impact in every
country around the world. We are creating the platforms and tools, powered by
artificial intelligence (“ AI ”), that deliver better, faster, and more
effective solutions to support small and large business competitiveness, improve
educational and health outcomes, grow public-sector efficiency, and empower
human ingenuity. From infrastructure and data, to business applications and
collaboration, we provide unique, differentiated value to customers. In a world
of increasing economic complexity, AI has the power to revolutionize many types
of work. Microsoft is now innovating and expanding our portfolio with AI
capabilities to help people and organizations overcome today’s challenges and
emerge stronger. Customers are looking to unlock value from their digital spend
and innovate for this next generation of AI, while simplifying security and
management. Those leveraging the Microsoft Cloud are best positioned to take
advantage of technological advancements and drive innovation. Our investment in
AI spans the entire company, from Microsoft Teams and Outlook, to Bing and Xbox,
and we are infusing generative AI capability into our consumer and commercial
offerings to deliver copilot capability for all services across the Microsoft
Cloud. In a world of increasing economic complexity, AI has the power to
revolutionize many types of work. Microsoft is now innovating and expanding our
portfolio with AI capabilities to help people and organizations overcome today’s
challenges and emerge stronger. Customers are looking to unlock value from their
digital spend and innovate for this next generation of AI, while simplifying
security and management. Those leveraging the Microsoft Cloud are best
positioned to take advantage of technological advancements and drive innovation.
Our investment in AI spans the entire company, from Microsoft Teams and Outlook,
to Bing and Xbox, and we are infusing generative AI capability into our consumer
and commercial offerings to deliver copilot capability for all services across
the Microsoft Cloud. We’re committed to making the promise of AI real – and
doing it responsibly. Our work is guided by a core set of principles: fairness,
reliability and safety, privacy and security, inclusiveness, transparency, and
accountability. We’re committed to making the promise of AI real – and doing it
responsibly. Our work is guided by a core set of principles: fairness,
reliability and safety, privacy and security, inclusiveness, transparency, and
accountability. What We Offer What We Offer Founded in 1975, we develop and
support software, services, devices, and solutions that deliver new value for
customers and help people and businesses realize their full potential. Founded
in 1975, we develop and support software, services, devices, and solutions that
deliver new value for customers and help people and businesses realize their
full potential. We offer an array of services, including cloud-based solutions
that provide customers with software, services, platforms, and content, and we
provide solution support and consulting services. We also deliver relevant
online advertising to a global audience. We offer an array of services,
including cloud-based solutions that provide customers with software, services,
platforms, and content, and we provide solution support and consulting services.
We also deliver relevant online advertising to a global audience. Our products
include operating systems, cross-device productivity and collaboration
applications, server applications, business solution applications, desktop and
server management tools, software development tools, and video games. We also
design and sell devices, including PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment
consoles, other intelligent devices, and related accessories. Our products
include operating systems, cross-device productivity and collaboration
applications, server applications, business solution applications, desktop and
server management tools, software development tools, and video games. We also
design and sell devices, including PCs, tablets, gaming and entertainment
consoles, other intelligent devices, and related accessories. The Ambitions That
Drive Us The Ambitions That Drive Us To achieve our vision, our research and
development efforts focus on three interconnected ambitions: To achieve our
vision, our research and development efforts focus on three interconnected
ambitions: •Reinvent productivity and business processes. • Reinvent
productivity and business processes. Reinvent productivity and business
processes. •Build the intelligent cloud and intelligent edge platform. • Build
the intelligent cloud and intelligent edge platform. Build the intelligent cloud
and intelligent edge platform. •Create more personal computing. • Create more
personal computing. Create more personal computing. Reinvent Productivity and
Business Processes Reinvent Productivity and Business Processes At Microsoft, we
provide technology and resources to help our customers create a secure,
productive work environment. Our family of products plays a key role in the ways
the world works, learns, and connects. At Microsoft, we provide technology and
resources to help our customers create a secure, productive work environment.
Our family of products plays a key role in the ways the world works, learns, and
connects. 4 4 PART I PART I Item 1 Item 1 Our growth depends on securely
delivering continuous innovation and advancing our leading productivity and
collaboration tools and services, including Office 365, Dynamics 365, and
LinkedIn. Microsoft 365 brings together Office 365, Windows, and Enterprise
Mobility + Security to help organizations empower their employees with AI-backed
tools that unlock creativity, increase collaboration, and fuel innovation, all
the while enabling compliance coverage and data protection. Microsoft Teams is a
comprehensive platform for work, with meetings, calls, chat, collaboration, and
business process automation. Microsoft Viva is an employee experience platform
that brings together communications, knowledge, learning, resources, and
insights. Microsoft 365 Copilot combines next-generation AI with business data
in the Microsoft Graph and Microsoft 365 applications. Our growth depends on
securely delivering continuous innovation and advancing our leading productivity
and collaboration tools and services, including Office 365, Dynamics 365, and
LinkedIn. Microsoft 365 brings together Office 365, Windows, and Enterprise
Mobility + Security to help organizations empower their employees with AI-backed
tools that unlock creativity, increase collaboration, and fuel innovation, all
the while enabling compliance coverage and data protection. Microsoft Teams is a
comprehensive platform for work, with meetings, calls, chat, collaboration, and
business process automation. Microsoft Viva is an employee experience platform
that brings together communications, knowledge, learning, resources, and
insights. Microsoft 365 Copilot combines next-generation AI with business data
in the Microsoft Graph and Microsoft 365 applications. Together with the
Microsoft Cloud, Dynamics 365, Microsoft Teams, and our AI offerings bring a new
era of collaborative applications that optimize business functions, processes,
and applications to better serve customers and employees while creating more
business value. Microsoft Power Platform is helping domain experts drive
productivity gains with low-code/no-code tools, robotic process automation,
virtual agents, and business intelligence. In a dynamic labor market, LinkedIn
is helping professionals use the platform to connect, learn, grow, and get
hired. Together with the Microsoft Cloud, Dynamics 365, Microsoft Teams, and our
AI offerings bring a new era of collaborative applications that optimize
business functions, processes, and applications to better serve customers and
employees while creating more business value. Microsoft Power Platform is
helping domain experts drive productivity gains with low-code/no-code tools,
robotic process automation, virtual agents, and business intelligence. In a
dynamic labor market, LinkedIn is helping professionals use the platform to
connect, learn, grow, and get hired. Build the Intelligent Cloud and Intelligent
Edge Platform Build the Intelligent Cloud and Intelligent Edge Platform As
digital transformation and adoption of AI accelerates and revolutionizes more
business workstreams, organizations in every sector across the globe can address
challenges that will have a fundamental impact on their success. For
enterprises, digital technology empowers employees, optimizes operations,
engages customers, and in some cases, changes the very core of products and
services. We continue to invest in high performance and sustainable computing to
meet the growing demand for fast access to Microsoft services provided by our
network of cloud computing infrastructure and datacenters. As digital
transformation and adoption of AI accelerates and revolutionizes more business
workstreams, organizations in every sector across the globe can address
challenges that will have a fundamental impact on their success. For
enterprises, digital technology empowers employees, optimizes operations,
engages customers, and in some cases, changes the very core of products and
services. We continue to invest in high performance and sustainable computing to
meet the growing demand for fast access to Microsoft services provided by our
network of cloud computing infrastructure and datacenters. Our cloud business
benefits from three economies of scale: datacenters that deploy computational
resources at significantly lower cost per unit than smaller ones; datacenters
that coordinate and aggregate diverse customer, geographic, and application
demand patterns, improving the utilization of computing, storage, and network
resources; and multi-tenancy locations that lower application maintenance labor
costs. Our cloud business benefits from three economies of scale: datacenters
that deploy computational resources at significantly lower cost per unit than
smaller ones; datacenters that coordinate and aggregate diverse customer,
geographic, and application demand patterns, improving the utilization of
computing, storage, and network resources; and multi-tenancy locations that
lower application maintenance labor costs. The Microsoft Cloud provides the best
integration across the technology stack while offering openness, improving time
to value, reducing costs, and increasing agility. Being a global-scale cloud,
Azure uniquely offers hybrid consistency, developer productivity, AI
capabilities, and trusted security and compliance. We see more emerging use
cases and needs for compute and security at the edge and are accelerating our
innovation across the spectrum of intelligent edge devices, from Internet of
Things (“IoT”) sensors to gateway devices and edge hardware to build, manage,
and secure edge workloads. The Microsoft Cloud provides the best integration
across the technology stack while offering openness, improving time to value,
reducing costs, and increasing agility. Being a global-scale cloud, Azure
uniquely offers hybrid consistency, developer productivity, AI capabilities, and
trusted security and compliance. We see more emerging use cases and needs for
compute and security at the edge and are accelerating our innovation across the
spectrum of intelligent edge devices, from Internet of Things (“IoT”) sensors to
gateway devices and edge hardware to build, manage, and secure edge workloads.
Our AI platform, Azure AI, is helping organizations transform, bringing
intelligence and insights to the hands of their employees and customers to solve
their most pressing challenges. Organizations large and small are deploying
Azure AI solutions to achieve more at scale, more easily, with the proper
enterprise-level and responsible AI protections. Our AI platform, Azure AI, is
helping organizations transform, bringing intelligence and insights to the hands
of their employees and customers to solve their most pressing challenges.
Organizations large and small are deploying Azure AI solutions to achieve more
at scale, more easily, with the proper enterprise-level and responsible AI
protections. We have a long-term partnership with OpenAI, a leading AI research
and deployment company. We deploy OpenAI’s models across our consumer and
enterprise products. As OpenAI’s exclusive cloud provider, Azure powers all of
OpenAI's workloads. We have also increased our investments in the development
and deployment of specialized supercomputing systems to accelerate OpenAI’s
research. We have a long-term partnership with OpenAI, a leading AI research and
deployment company. We deploy OpenAI’s models across our consumer and enterprise
products. As OpenAI’s exclusive cloud provider, Azure powers all of OpenAI's
workloads. We have also increased our investments in the development and
deployment of specialized supercomputing systems to accelerate OpenAI’s
research. Our hybrid infrastructure offers integrated, end-to-end security,
compliance, identity, and management capabilities to support the real-world
needs and evolving regulatory requirements of commercial customers and
enterprises. Our industry clouds bring together capabilities across the entire
Microsoft Cloud, along with industry-specific customizations. Azure Arc
simplifies governance and management by delivering a consistent multi-cloud and
on-premises management platform. Our hybrid infrastructure offers integrated,
end-to-end security, compliance, identity, and management capabilities to
support the real-world needs and evolving regulatory requirements of commercial
customers and enterprises. Our industry clouds bring together capabilities
across the entire Microsoft Cloud, along with industry-specific customizations.
Azure Arc simplifies governance and management by delivering a consistent multi-
cloud and on-premises management platform. Nuance, a leader in conversational AI
and ambient intelligence across industries including healthcare, financial
services, retail, and telecommunications, joined Microsoft in 2022. Microsoft
and Nuance enable organizations to accelerate their business goals with
security-focused, cloud-based solutions infused with AI. Nuance, a leader in
conversational AI and ambient intelligence across industries including
healthcare, financial services, retail, and telecommunications, joined Microsoft
in 2022. Microsoft and Nuance enable organizations to accelerate their business
goals with security-focused, cloud-based solutions infused with AI. We are
accelerating our development of mixed reality solutions with new Azure services
and devices. Microsoft Mesh enables organizations to create custom, immersive
experiences for the workplace to help bring remote and hybrid workers and teams
together. We are accelerating our development of mixed reality solutions with
new Azure services and devices. Microsoft Mesh enables organizations to create
custom, immersive experiences for the workplace to help bring remote and hybrid
workers and teams together. 5 5 PART I PART I Item 1 Item 1 The ability to
convert data into AI drives our competitive advantage. The Microsoft Intelligent
Data Platform is a leading cloud data platform that fully integrates databases,
analytics, and governance. The platform empowers organizations to invest more
time creating value rather than integrating and managing their data. Microsoft
Fabric is an end-to-end, unified analytics platform that brings together all the
data and analytics tools that organizations need. The ability to convert data
into AI drives our competitive advantage. The Microsoft Intelligent Data
Platform is a leading cloud data platform that fully integrates databases,
analytics, and governance. The platform empowers organizations to invest more
time creating value rather than integrating and managing their data. Microsoft
Fabric is an end-to-end, unified analytics platform that brings together all the
data and analytics tools that organizations need. GitHub Copilot is at the
forefront of AI-powered software development, giving developers a new tool to
write code easier and faster so they can focus on more creative problem-solving.
From GitHub to Visual Studio, we provide a developer tool chain for everyone, no
matter the technical experience, across all platforms, whether Azure, Windows,
or any other cloud or client platform. GitHub Copilot is at the forefront of AI-
powered software development, giving developers a new tool to write code easier
and faster so they can focus on more creative problem-solving. From GitHub to
Visual Studio, we provide a developer tool chain for everyone, no matter the
technical experience, across all platforms, whether Azure, Windows, or any other
cloud or client platform. Windows also plays a critical role in fueling our
cloud business with Windows 365, a desktop operating system that’s also a cloud
service. From another internet-connected device, including Android or macOS
devices, users can run Windows 365, just like a virtual machine. Windows also
plays a critical role in fueling our cloud business with Windows 365, a desktop
operating system that’s also a cloud service. From another internet-connected
device, including Android or macOS devices, users can run Windows 365, just like
a virtual machine. Additionally, we are extending our infrastructure beyond the
planet, bringing cloud computing to space. Azure Orbital is a fully managed
ground station as a service for fast downlinking of data. Additionally, we are
extending our infrastructure beyond the planet, bringing cloud computing to
space. Azure Orbital is a fully managed ground station as a service for fast
downlinking of data. Create More Personal Computing Create More Personal
Computing We strive to make computing more personal, enabling users to interact
with technology in more intuitive, engaging, and dynamic ways. We strive to make
computing more personal, enabling users to interact with technology in more
intuitive, engaging, and dynamic ways. Windows 11 offers innovations focused on
enhancing productivity, including Windows Copilot with centralized AI assistance
and Dev Home to help developers become more productive. Windows 11 security and
privacy features include operating system security, application security, and
user and identity security. Windows 11 offers innovations focused on enhancing
productivity, including Windows Copilot with centralized AI assistance and Dev
Home to help developers become more productive. Windows 11 security and privacy
features include operating system security, application security, and user and
identity security. Through our Search, News, Mapping, and Browser services,
Microsoft delivers unique trust, privacy, and safety features. In February 2023,
we launched an all new, AI-powered Microsoft Edge browser and Bing search engine
with Bing Chat to deliver better search, more complete answers, and the ability
to generate content. Microsoft Edge is our fast and secure browser that helps
protect users’ data. Quick access to AI-powered tools, apps, and more within
Microsoft Edge’s sidebar enhance browsing capabilities. Through our Search,
News, Mapping, and Browser services, Microsoft delivers unique trust, privacy,
and safety features. In February 2023, we launched an all new, AI-powered
Microsoft Edge browser and Bing search engine with Bing Chat to deliver better
search, more complete answers, and the ability to generate content. Microsoft
Edge is our fast and secure browser that helps protect users’ data. Quick access
to AI-powered tools, apps, and more within Microsoft Edge’s sidebar enhance
browsing capabilities. We are committed to designing and marketing first-party
devices to help drive innovation, create new device categories, and stimulate
demand in the Windows ecosystem. The Surface family includes Surface Pro,
Surface Laptop, and other Surface products. We are committed to designing and
marketing first-party devices to help drive innovation, create new device
categories, and stimulate demand in the Windows ecosystem. The Surface family
includes Surface Pro, Surface Laptop, and other Surface products. Microsoft
continues to invest in gaming content, community, and cloud services. We have
broadened our approach to how we think about gaming end-to-end, from the way
games are created and distributed to how they are played, including subscription
services like Xbox Game Pass and new devices from third-party manufacturers so
players can engage across PC, console, and mobile. In January 2022, we announced
plans to acquire Activision Blizzard, Inc. , a leader in game development and an
interactive entertainment content publisher. Microsoft continues to invest in
gaming content, community, and cloud services. We have broadened our approach to
how we think about gaming end-to-end, from the way games are created and
distributed to how they are played, including subscription services like Xbox
Game Pass and new devices from third-party manufacturers so players can engage
across PC, console, and mobile. In January 2022, we announced plans to acquire
Activision Blizzard, Inc. , a leader in game development and an interactive
entertainment content publisher. Our Future Opportunity Our Future Opportunity
We are focused on helping customers use the breadth and depth of the Microsoft
Cloud to get the most value out of their digital spend while leading the new AI
wave across our solution areas. We continue to develop complete, intelligent
solutions for our customers that empower people to be productive and
collaborate, while safeguarding businesses and simplifying IT management. Our
goal is to lead the industry in several distinct areas of technology over the
long term, which we expect will translate to sustained growth. We are investing
significant resources in: We are focused on helping customers use the breadth
and depth of the Microsoft Cloud to get the most value out of their digital
spend while leading the new AI wave across our solution areas. We continue to
develop complete, intelligent solutions for our customers that empower people to
be productive and collaborate, while safeguarding businesses and simplifying IT
management. Our goal is to lead the industry in several distinct areas of
technology over the long term, which we expect will translate to sustained
growth. We are investing significant resources in: •Transforming the workplace
to deliver new modern, modular business applications, drive deeper insights, and
improve how people communicate, collaborate, learn, work, and interact with one
another. • Transforming the workplace to deliver new modern, modular business
applications, drive deeper insights, and improve how people communicate,
collaborate, learn, work, and interact with one another. Transforming the
workplace to deliver new modern, modular business applications, drive deeper
insights, and improve how people communicate, collaborate, learn, work, and
interact with one another. •Building and running cloud-based services in ways
that utilize ubiquitous computing to unleash new experiences and opportunities
for businesses and individuals. • Building and running cloud-based services in
ways that utilize ubiquitous computing to unleash new experiences and
opportunities for businesses and individuals. Building and running cloud-based
services in ways that utilize ubiquitous computing to unleash new experiences
and opportunities for businesses and individuals. •Applying AI and ambient
intelligence to drive insights, revolutionize many types of work, and provide
substantive productivity gains using natural methods of communication. •
Applying AI and ambient intelligence to drive insights, revolutionize many types
of work, and provide substantive productivity gains using natural methods of
communication. Applying AI and ambient intelligence to drive insights,
revolutionize many types of work, and provide substantive productivity gains
using natural methods of communication. 6 6 PART I PART I Item 1 Item 1
•Tackling security from all angles with our integrated, end-to-end solutions
spanning security, compliance, identity, and management, across all clouds and
platforms. • Tackling security from all angles with our integrated, end-to-end
solutions spanning security, compliance, identity, and management, across all
clouds and platforms. Tackling security from all angles with our integrated,
end-to-end solutions spanning security, compliance, identity, and management,
across all clouds and platforms. •Inventing new gaming experiences that bring
people together around their shared love for games on any devices and pushing
the boundaries of innovation with console and PC gaming. • Inventing new gaming
experiences that bring people together around their shared love for games on any
devices and pushing the boundaries of innovation with console and PC gaming.
Inventing new gaming experiences that bring people together around their shared
love for games on any devices and pushing the boundaries of innovation with
console and PC gaming. •Using Windows to fuel our cloud business, grow our share
of the PC market, and drive increased engagement with our services like
Microsoft 365 Consumer, Microsoft Teams, Microsoft Edge, Bing, Xbox Game Pass,
and more. • Using Windows to fuel our cloud business, grow our share of the PC
market, and drive increased engagement with our services like Microsoft 365
Consumer, Microsoft Teams, Microsoft Edge, Bing, Xbox Game Pass, and more. Using
Windows to fuel our cloud business, grow our share of the PC market, and drive
increased engagement with our services like Microsoft 365 Consumer, Microsoft
Teams, Microsoft Edge, Bing, Xbox Game Pass, and more. Our future growth depends
on our ability to transcend current product category definitions, business
models, and sales motions. Our future growth depends on our ability to transcend
current product category definitions, business models, and sales motions.
Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Commitment to
Sustainability Commitment to Sustainability Microsoft’s approach to addressing
climate change starts with the sustainability of our own business. In 2020, we
committed to being a carbon negative, water positive, and zero waste company by
2030. Microsoft’s approach to addressing climate change starts with the
sustainability of our own business. In 2020, we committed to being a carbon
negative, water positive, and zero waste company by 2030. In May 2023, we
released our Environmental Sustainability Report which looked back at our
progress during fiscal year 2022. We continued to make progress on our goals,
with our overall emissions declining by 0. 5 percent. While our Scope 1 and
Scope 2 emissions continued to decline, Scope 3 emissions increased by 0. 5
percent. Scope 3 represented 96 percent of our total emissions, resulting
primarily from the operations of our suppliers and the use of our products
across our customers. In May 2023, we released our Environmental Sustainability
Report which looked back at our progress during fiscal year 2022. We continued
to make progress on our goals, with our overall emissions declining by 0. 5
percent. While our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions continued to decline, Scope 3
emissions increased by 0. 5 percent. Scope 3 represented 96 percent of our total
emissions, resulting primarily from the operations of our suppliers and the use
of our products across our customers. A few examples of our continued progress
include: A few examples of our continued progress include: •Signed new power
purchase agreements, bringing our total portfolio of carbon-free energy to over
13. 5 gigawatts. • Signed new power purchase agreements, bringing our total
portfolio of carbon-free energy to over 13. 5 gigawatts. Signed new power
purchase agreements, bringing our total portfolio of carbon-free energy to over
13. 5 gigawatts. •Contracted for water replenishment projects that are estimated
to provide more than 15. 6 million cubic meters in volumetric water benefit over
the lifetime of these projects. • Contracted for water replenishment projects
that are estimated to provide more than 15. 6 million cubic meters in volumetric
water benefit over the lifetime of these projects. Contracted for water
replenishment projects that are estimated to provide more than 15. 6 million
cubic meters in volumetric water benefit over the lifetime of these projects.
•Diverted 12, 159 metric tons of solid waste from landfills and incinerators
across our direct operational footprint. • Diverted 12, 159 metric tons of solid
waste from landfills and incinerators across our direct operational footprint.
Diverted 12, 159 metric tons of solid waste from landfills and incinerators
across our direct operational footprint. •Protected 12, 270 acres of land in
Belize – more than the 11, 206 acres of land that we use around the world. •
Protected 12, 270 acres of land in Belize – more than the 11, 206 acres of land
that we use around the world. Protected 12, 270 acres of land in Belize – more
than the 11, 206 acres of land that we use around the world. Microsoft has a
role to play in developing and advancing new climate solutions, but we recognize
that no solution can be offered by any single company, organization, or
government. Our approach helps to support the sustainability needs of our
customers and the global community. Our Microsoft Cloud for Sustainability, an
environmental sustainability management platform that includes Microsoft
Sustainability Manager, enables organizations to record, report, and reduce
their Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions. These digital tools can interoperate with
business systems and unify data intelligence for organizations. Microsoft has a
role to play in developing and advancing new climate solutions, but we recognize
that no solution can be offered by any single company, organization, or
government. Our approach helps to support the sustainability needs of our
customers and the global community. Our Microsoft Cloud for Sustainability, an
environmental sustainability management platform that includes Microsoft
Sustainability Manager, enables organizations to record, report, and reduce
their Scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions. These digital tools can interoperate with
business systems and unify data intelligence for organizations. Addressing
Racial Injustice and Inequity Addressing Racial Injustice and Inequity We are
committed to addressing racial injustice and inequity in the United States for
Black and African American communities and helping improve lived experiences at
Microsoft, in employees’ communities, and beyond. Our Racial Equity Initiative
focuses on three multi-year pillars, each containing actions and progress we
expect to make or exceed by 2025. We are committed to addressing racial
injustice and inequity in the United States for Black and African American
communities and helping improve lived experiences at Microsoft, in employees’
communities, and beyond. Our Racial Equity Initiative focuses on three multi-
year pillars, each containing actions and progress we expect to make or exceed
by 2025. •Strengthening our communities: using data, technology, and
partnerships to help improve the lives of Black and African American people in
the United States, including our employees and their communities. •
Strengthening our communities: using data, technology, and partnerships to help
improve the lives of Black and African American people in the United States,
including our employees and their communities. Strengthening our communities:
using data, technology, and partnerships to help improve the lives of Black and
African American people in the United States, including our employees and their
communities. •Engaging our ecosystem: using our balance sheet and relationships
with suppliers and partners to foster societal change and create new
opportunities. • Engaging our ecosystem: using our balance sheet and
relationships with suppliers and partners to foster societal change and create
new opportunities. Engaging our ecosystem: using our balance sheet and
relationships with suppliers and partners to foster societal change and create
new opportunities. •Increasing representation and strengthening inclusion:
building on our momentum by adding a $150 million investment to strengthen
inclusion and double the number of Black, African American, Hispanic, and Latinx
leaders in the United States by 2025. • Increasing representation and
strengthening inclusion: building on our momentum by adding a $150 million
investment to strengthen inclusion and double the number of Black, African
American, Hispanic, and Latinx leaders in the United States by 2025. Increasing
representation and strengthening inclusion: building on our momentum by adding a
$150 million investment to strengthen inclusion and double the number of Black,
African American, Hispanic, and Latinx leaders in the United States by 2025. 7 7
PART I PART I Item 1 Item 1 In fiscal year 2023, we collaborated with partners
and worked within neighborhoods and communities to launch and scale a number of
projects and programs, including: In fiscal year 2023, we collaborated with
partners and worked within neighborhoods and communities to launch and scale a
number of projects and programs, including: •Working with 103 unique
organizations in 165 cities and counties on our Justice Reform Initiative to
empower communities and advance racial equity and fairness in the justice
system. • Working with 103 unique organizations in 165 cities and counties on
our Justice Reform Initiative to empower communities and advance racial equity
and fairness in the justice system. Working with 103 unique organizations in 165
cities and counties on our Justice Reform Initiative to empower communities and
advance racial equity and fairness in the justice system. •Increasing access to
affordable broadband, devices, and digital literacy training across 14
geographies, including 11 cities and three states in the Black Rural south. •
Increasing access to affordable broadband, devices, and digital literacy
training across 14 geographies, including 11 cities and three states in the
Black Rural south. Increasing access to affordable broadband, devices, and
digital literacy training across 14 geographies, including 11 cities and three
states in the Black Rural south. •Growing our Nonprofit Tech Acceleration for
Black and African American Communities program, which uses data, technology, and
partnerships to help more than 2, 000 local organizations to modernize and
streamline operations. • Growing our Nonprofit Tech Acceleration for Black and
African American Communities program, which uses data, technology, and
partnerships to help more than 2, 000 local organizations to modernize and
streamline operations. Growing our Nonprofit Tech Acceleration for Black and
African American Communities program, which uses data, technology, and
partnerships to help more than 2, 000 local organizations to modernize and
streamline operations. •Expanding our Technology Education and Learning Support
(“TEALS”) program to reach nearly 400 high schools in 21 communities to increase
computer science opportunities for Black and African American students. •
Expanding our Technology Education and Learning Support (“TEALS”) program to
reach nearly 400 high schools in 21 communities to increase computer science
opportunities for Black and African American students. Expanding our Technology
Education and Learning Support (“TEALS”) program to reach nearly 400 high
schools in 21 communities to increase computer science opportunities for Black
and African American students. We exceeded our 2020 goal to double the
percentage of our transaction volumes with Black- and African American-owned
financial institutions by 2023. We are also increasing investment activity with
Black- and African American-owned asset managers, which now represent 45 percent
of our external manager group, enabling increased funds into local communities.
We also met our goal of creating a $100 million program focused on mission-
driven banks. We enriched our supplier pipeline, achieving our goal to spend
$500 million with double the number of Black- and African American-owned
suppliers. We also increased the number of identified partners in the Black
Partner Growth Initiative by more than 250 percent, surpassing our initial goal.
We exceeded our 2020 goal to double the percentage of our transaction volumes
with Black- and African American-owned financial institutions by 2023. We are
also increasing investment activity with Black- and African American-owned asset
managers, which now represent 45 percent of our external manager group, enabling
increased funds into local communities. We also met our goal of creating a $100
million program focused on mission-driven banks. We enriched our supplier
pipeline, achieving our goal to spend $500 million with double the number of
Black- and African American-owned suppliers. We also increased the number of
identified partners in the Black Partner Growth Initiative by more than 250
percent, surpassing our initial goal. We have made meaningful progress on
representation and inclusion at Microsoft. As of June 2023, we are 93 percent of
the way to our 2025 commitment to double the number of Black and African
American people managers in the U. S. (below director level), and 107 percent of
the way for Black and African American directors (people managers and individual
contributors). We are 28 percent of the way for Hispanic and Latinx people
managers (below director level) and 74 percent of the way for Hispanic and
Latinx directors. We have made meaningful progress on representation and
inclusion at Microsoft. As of June 2023, we are 93 percent of the way to our
2025 commitment to double the number of Black and African American people
managers in the U. S. (below director level), and 107 percent of the way for
Black and African American directors (people managers and individual
contributors). We are 28 percent of the way for Hispanic and Latinx people
managers (below director level) and 74 percent of the way for Hispanic and
Latinx directors. Investing in Digital Skills Investing in Digital Skills After
helping over 80 million jobseekers around the world access digital skilling
resources, we introduced a new Skills for Jobs initiative to support a more
skills-based labor market, with greater flexibility and accessible learning
paths to develop the right skills needed for the most in-demand jobs. Our Skills
for Jobs initiative brings together learning resources, certification
opportunities, and job-seeker tools from LinkedIn, GitHub, and Microsoft Learn,
and is built on data insights drawn from LinkedIn’s Economic Graph. After
helping over 80 million jobseekers around the world access digital skilling
resources, we introduced a new Skills for Jobs initiative to support a more
skills-based labor market, with greater flexibility and accessible learning
paths to develop the right skills needed for the most in-demand jobs. Our Skills
for Jobs initiative brings together learning resources, certification
opportunities, and job-seeker tools from LinkedIn, GitHub, and Microsoft Learn,
and is built on data insights drawn from LinkedIn’s Economic Graph. We also
launched a national campaign to help skill and recruit 250, 000 people into the
cybersecurity workforce by 2025, representing half of the country’s workforce
shortage. To that end, we are making curriculum available free of charge to all
of the nation’s higher education institutions, providing training for new and
existing faculty, and providing scholarships and supplemental resources to 25,
000 students. We have expanded the cyber skills initiative to 27 additional
countries that show elevated cyberthreat risks coupled with significant gaps in
their cybersecurity workforces, partnering with nonprofits and other educational
institutions to train the next generation of cybersecurity workers. We also
launched a national campaign to help skill and recruit 250, 000 people into the
cybersecurity workforce by 2025, representing half of the country’s workforce
shortage. To that end, we are making curriculum available free of charge to all
of the nation’s higher education institutions, providing training for new and
existing faculty, and providing scholarships and supplemental resources to 25,
000 students. We have expanded the cyber skills initiative to 27 additional
countries that show elevated cyberthreat risks coupled with significant gaps in
their cybersecurity workforces, partnering with nonprofits and other educational
institutions to train the next generation of cybersecurity workers. Generative
AI is creating unparalleled opportunities to empower workers globally, but only
if everyone has the skills to use it. To address this, in June 2023 we launched
a new AI Skills Initiative to help everyone learn how to harness the power of
AI. This includes a new LinkedIn learning pathway offering new coursework on
learning the foundations of generative AI. We also launched a new global grant
challenge to uncover new ways of training workers on generative AI and are
providing greater access to digital learning events and resources for everyone
to improve their AI fluency. Generative AI is creating unparalleled
opportunities to empower workers globally, but only if everyone has the skills
to use it. To address this, in June 2023 we launched a new AI Skills Initiative
to help everyone learn how to harness the power of AI. This includes a new
LinkedIn learning pathway offering new coursework on learning the foundations of
generative AI. We also launched a new global grant challenge to uncover new ways
of training workers on generative AI and are providing greater access to digital
learning events and resources for everyone to improve their AI fluency. HUMAN
CAPITAL RESOURCES HUMAN CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview Overview Microsoft aims to
recruit, develop, and retain world-changing talent from a diversity of
backgrounds. To foster their and our success, we seek to create an environment
where people can thrive and do their best work. We strive to maximize the
potential of our human capital resources by creating a respectful, rewarding,
and inclusive work environment that enables our global employees to create
products and services that further our mission. Microsoft aims to recruit,
develop, and retain world-changing talent from a diversity of backgrounds. To
foster their and our success, we seek to create an environment where people can
thrive and do their best work. We strive to maximize the potential of our human
capital resources by creating a respectful, rewarding, and inclusive work
environment that enables our global employees to create products and services
that further our mission. 8 8 PART I PART I Item 1 Item 1 As of June 30, 2023,
we employed approximately 221, 000 people on a full-time basis, 120, 000 in the
U. S. and 101, 000 internationally. Of the total employed people, 89, 000 were
in operations, including manufacturing, distribution, product support, and
consulting services; 72, 000 were in product research and development; 45, 000
were in sales and marketing; and 15, 000 were in general and administration.
Certain employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. As of June
30, 2023, we employed approximately 221, 000 people on a full-time basis, 120,
000 in the U. S. and 101, 000 internationally. Of the total employed people, 89,
000 were in operations, including manufacturing, distribution, product support,
and consulting services; 72, 000 were in product research and development; 45,
000 were in sales and marketing; and 15, 000 were in general and administration.
Certain employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Our Culture
Our Culture Microsoft’s culture is grounded in growth mindset. This means
everyone is on a continuous journey to learn and grow, operating as one company
instead of multiple siloed businesses. Microsoft’s culture is grounded in growth
mindset. This means everyone is on a continuous journey to learn and grow,
operating as one company instead of multiple siloed businesses. Our employee
listening systems enable us to gather feedback directly from our workforce to
inform our programs and employee needs globally. Employees participate in our
Employee Signals surveys, which cover a variety of topics such as thriving,
inclusion, team culture, wellbeing, and learning and development. We also
collect Daily Signals employee survey responses, giving us real-time insights
into ways we can support our employees. In addition to Employee Signals and
Daily Signals surveys, we gain insights through onboarding, exit surveys,
internal Viva Engage channels, employee Q&A sessions, and our internal AskHR
Service support. Our employee listening systems enable us to gather feedback
directly from our workforce to inform our programs and employee needs globally.
Employees participate in our Employee Signals surveys, which cover a variety of
topics such as thriving, inclusion, team culture, wellbeing, and learning and
development. We also collect Daily Signals employee survey responses, giving us
real-time insights into ways we can support our employees. In addition to
Employee Signals and Daily Signals surveys, we gain insights through onboarding,
exit surveys, internal Viva Engage channels, employee Q&A sessions, and our
internal AskHR Service support. Diversity and inclusion are core to our business
model, and we hold ourselves accountable for driving global systemic change in
our workforce and creating an inclusive work environment. We support multiple
highly active Employee Resource Groups for women, families, racial and ethnic
minorities, military, people with disabilities, and employees who identify as
LGBTQIA+, where employees can go for support, networking, and community-
building. As described in our 2022 Proxy Statement, annual performance and
compensation reviews of our senior leadership team include an evaluation of
their contributions to employee culture and diversity. To ensure accountability
over time, we publicly disclose our progress on a multitude of workforce metrics
including: Diversity and inclusion are core to our business model, and we hold
ourselves accountable for driving global systemic change in our workforce and
creating an inclusive work environment. We support multiple highly active
Employee Resource Groups for women, families, racial and ethnic minorities,
military, people with disabilities, and employees who identify as LGBTQIA+,
where employees can go for support, networking, and community-building. As
described in our 2022 Proxy Statement, annual performance and compensation
reviews of our senior leadership team include an evaluation of their
contributions to employee culture and diversity. To ensure accountability over
time, we publicly disclose our progress on a multitude of workforce metrics
including: •Detailed breakdowns of gender, racial, and ethnic minority
representation in our employee population, with data by job types, levels, and
segments of our business. • Detailed breakdowns of gender, racial, and ethnic
minority representation in our employee population, with data by job types,
levels, and segments of our business. Detailed breakdowns of gender, racial, and
ethnic minority representation in our employee population, with data by job
types, levels, and segments of our business. •Our EEO-1 report (equal employment
opportunity). • Our EEO-1 report (equal employment opportunity). Our EEO-1
report (equal employment opportunity). •Disability representation. • Disability
representation. Disability representation. •Pay equity (see details below). •
Pay equity (see details below). Pay equity (see details below). Total Rewards
and Pay Equity Total Rewards and Pay Equity We develop dynamic, sustainable,
market-driven, and strategic programs with the goal of providing a highly
differentiated portfolio to attract, reward, and retain top talent and enable
our employees to thrive. These programs reinforce our culture and values such as
collaboration and growth mindset. Managers evaluate and recommend rewards based
on, for example, how well we leverage the work of others and contribute to the
success of our colleagues. We monitor pay equity and career progress across
multiple dimensions. Our total compensation opportunity is highly differentiated
and is market competitive. We develop dynamic, sustainable, market-driven, and
strategic programs with the goal of providing a highly differentiated portfolio
to attract, reward, and retain top talent and enable our employees to thrive.
These programs reinforce our culture and values such as collaboration and growth
mindset. Managers evaluate and recommend rewards based on, for example, how well
we leverage the work of others and contribute to the success of our colleagues.
We monitor pay equity and career progress across multiple dimensions. Our total
compensation opportunity is highly differentiated and is market competitive. In
order to manage our costs in a dynamic, competitive environment, in fiscal year
2023 we announced that base salaries of salaried employees would remain at
fiscal year 2022 levels. Pay increases continue to be available for rewards-
eligible hourly and equivalent employees. We will continue our practice of
investing in stock for all rewards-eligible employees, salaried and hourly, and
investing in bonuses for all eligible employees. In order to manage our costs in
a dynamic, competitive environment, in fiscal year 2023 we announced that base
salaries of salaried employees would remain at fiscal year 2022 levels. Pay
increases continue to be available for rewards-eligible hourly and equivalent
employees. We will continue our practice of investing in stock for all rewards-
eligible employees, salaried and hourly, and investing in bonuses for all
eligible employees. 9 9 PART I PART I Item 1 Item 1 Since 2016, we have reported
on pay equity as part of our annual Diversity and Inclusion report. In 2022, we
reported that all racial and ethnic minority employees in the U. S. combined
earn $1. 008 for every $1. 000 earned by their white counterparts, that women in
the U. S. earn $1. 007 for every $1. 000 earned by their counterparts who are
men, and that women outside the U. S. earn $1. 002 for every $1. 000 earned by
their counterparts outside the U. S. who are men. In this year’s report, we
again expanded our pay equity data beyond the U. S. to report on 61 additional
countries (up from 12 last year), representing 99. 8% of our global Microsoft
workforce. Since 2016, we have reported on pay equity as part of our annual
Diversity and Inclusion report. In 2022, we reported that all racial and ethnic
minority employees in the U. S. combined earn $1. 008 for every $1. 000 earned
by their white counterparts, that women in the U. S. earn $1. 007 for every $1.
000 earned by their counterparts who are men, and that women outside the U. S.
earn $1. 002 for every $1. 000 earned by their counterparts outside the U. S.
who are men. In this year’s report, we again expanded our pay equity data beyond
the U. S. to report on 61 additional countries (up from 12 last year),
representing 99. 8% of our global Microsoft workforce. In addition, we began
reporting on unadjusted median pay in our annual report, comparing total pay
amounts for all employees regardless of factors such as job title, level, or
tenure. For employees who are eligible for rewards, the analysis showed that
total pay for women is 89. 6% of total pay for men in the U. S. and 86. 2%
outside of the U. S. , and total pay for racial and ethnic minorities in the U.
S. is 89. 9% of total pay for white employees. As we continue to increase
representation for women and racial and ethnic minorities at more senior levels,
and continue to ensure pay equity for all, the gap between the medians will
reduce. In addition, we began reporting on unadjusted median pay in our annual
report, comparing total pay amounts for all employees regardless of factors such
as job title, level, or tenure. For employees who are eligible for rewards, the
analysis showed that total pay for women is 89. 6% of total pay for men in the
U. S. and 86. 2% outside of the U. S. , and total pay for racial and ethnic
minorities in the U. S. is 89. 9% of total pay for white employees. As we
continue to increase representation for women and racial and ethnic minorities
at more senior levels, and continue to ensure pay equity for all, the gap
between the medians will reduce. Our intended result is a global performance and
development approach that fosters our culture, and competitive compensation that
ensures equitable pay by role while supporting pay for performance. Our intended
result is a global performance and development approach that fosters our
culture, and competitive compensation that ensures equitable pay by role while
supporting pay for performance. Wellbeing and Hybrid Work Wellbeing and Hybrid
Work Microsoft is committed to supporting our employees’ wellbeing while they
are at work and in their personal lives. We have invested significantly in
wellbeing, and offer a differentiated benefits package which includes many
physical, emotional, and financial wellness programs including counseling
through the Microsoft CARES Employee Assistance Program, mental wellbeing
support, flexible fitness benefits, disability accommodations, savings and
investment tools, adoption assistance, and back-up care for children and elders.
Finally, our Occupational Health and Safety program helps ensure employees can
stay safe while they are working. Microsoft is committed to supporting our
employees’ wellbeing while they are at work and in their personal lives. We have
invested significantly in wellbeing, and offer a differentiated benefits package
which includes many physical, emotional, and financial wellness programs
including counseling through the Microsoft CARES Employee Assistance Program,
mental wellbeing support, flexible fitness benefits, disability accommodations,
savings and investment tools, adoption assistance, and back-up care for children
and elders. Finally, our Occupational Health and Safety program helps ensure
employees can stay safe while they are working. We introduced Hybrid Workplace
Flexibility Guidance to better support leaders, managers, and employees in
hybrid work scenarios. Our ongoing survey data shows that 93% of employees value
the flexibility related to work location, work site, and work hours, and 78% are
satisfied with the quality of connection with co-workers. There is no one-size-
fits-all approach to flexible work at Microsoft. As a company, we will continue
to leverage data and research to inform decision making, balancing the needs of
business, team, and individual. We introduced Hybrid Workplace Flexibility
Guidance to better support leaders, managers, and employees in hybrid work
scenarios. Our ongoing survey data shows that 93% of employees value the
flexibility related to work location, work site, and work hours, and 78% are
satisfied with the quality of connection with co-workers. There is no one-size-
fits-all approach to flexible work at Microsoft. As a company, we will continue
to leverage data and research to inform decision making, balancing the needs of
business, team, and individual. Learning and Development Learning and
Development We offer a range of learning opportunities, including personalized
opportunities on our internal and external learning portals, in-classroom
learning, required learning on compliance and company culture, on-the-job
advancement opportunities, and manager coaching. We also provide customized
manager learning, new employee orientation, and tools for operating in a
flexible hybrid work environment. We offer a range of learning opportunities,
including personalized opportunities on our internal and external learning
portals, in-classroom learning, required learning on compliance and company
culture, on-the-job advancement opportunities, and manager coaching. We also
provide customized manager learning, new employee orientation, and tools for
operating in a flexible hybrid work environment. All Microsoft employees
globally access our single Viva Learning tool for both required and personal
choice learning. This includes courses focused on our core principles and
compliance matters, such as Business Conduct, Privacy, Security Foundations, and
Harassment Prevention. We also deliver skills training for employees based on
their profession and role discipline. All Microsoft employees globally access
our single Viva Learning tool for both required and personal choice learning.
This includes courses focused on our core principles and compliance matters,
such as Business Conduct, Privacy, Security Foundations, and Harassment
Prevention. We also deliver skills training for employees based on their
profession and role discipline. We have over 27, 000 people managers, all of
whom must complete between 20-33 hours of compulsory training on leadership and
management and are assigned additional targeted training on an ongoing basis
related to people management, compliance, and culture. We have over 27, 000
people managers, all of whom must complete between 20-33 hours of compulsory
training on leadership and management and are assigned additional targeted
training on an ongoing basis related to people management, compliance, and
culture. 10 10 PART I PART I Item 1 Item 1 OPERATING SEGMENTS OPERATING SEGMENTS
We operate our business and report our financial performance using three
segments: Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More
Personal Computing. Our segments provide management with a comprehensive
financial view of our key businesses. The segments enable the alignment of
strategies and objectives across the development, sales, marketing, and services
organizations, and they provide a framework for timely and rational allocation
of resources within businesses. We operate our business and report our financial
performance using three segments: Productivity and Business Processes,
Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal Computing. Our segments provide management
with a comprehensive financial view of our key businesses. The segments enable
the alignment of strategies and objectives across the development, sales,
marketing, and services organizations, and they provide a framework for timely
and rational allocation of resources within businesses. Additional information
on our operating segments and geographic and product information is contained in
Note 19 – Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial
Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). Additional information on our
operating segments and geographic and product information is contained in Note
19 – Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial
Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). Our reportable segments are
described below. Our reportable segments are described below. Productivity and
Business Processes Productivity and Business Processes Our Productivity and
Business Processes segment consists of products and services in our portfolio of
productivity, communication, and information services, spanning a variety of
devices and platforms. This segment primarily comprises: Our Productivity and
Business Processes segment consists of products and services in our portfolio of
productivity, communication, and information services, spanning a variety of
devices and platforms. This segment primarily comprises: •Office Commercial
(Office 365 subscriptions, the Office 365 portion of Microsoft 365 Commercial
subscriptions, and Office licensed on-premises), comprising Office, Exchange,
SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Office 365 Security and Compliance, Microsoft Viva,
and Microsoft 365 Copilot. • Office Commercial (Office 365 subscriptions, the
Office 365 portion of Microsoft 365 Commercial subscriptions, and Office
licensed on-premises), comprising Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams,
Office 365 Security and Compliance, Microsoft Viva, and Microsoft 365 Copilot.
Office Commercial (Office 365 subscriptions, the Office 365 portion of Microsoft
365 Commercial subscriptions, and Office licensed on-premises), comprising
Office, Exchange, SharePoint, Microsoft Teams, Office 365 Security and
Compliance, Microsoft Viva, and Microsoft 365 Copilot. •Office Consumer,
including Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions, Office licensed on-premises, and
other Office services. • Office Consumer, including Microsoft 365 Consumer
subscriptions, Office licensed on-premises, and other Office services. Office
Consumer, including Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions, Office licensed on-
premises, and other Office services. •LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions,
Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, and Sales Solutions. • LinkedIn,
including Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, and
Sales Solutions. LinkedIn, including Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions,
Premium Subscriptions, and Sales Solutions. •Dynamics business solutions,
including Dynamics 365, comprising a set of intelligent, cloud-based
applications across ERP, CRM (including Customer Insights), Power Apps, and
Power Automate; and on-premises ERP and CRM applications. • Dynamics business
solutions, including Dynamics 365, comprising a set of intelligent, cloud-based
applications across ERP, CRM (including Customer Insights), Power Apps, and
Power Automate; and on-premises ERP and CRM applications. Dynamics business
solutions, including Dynamics 365, comprising a set of intelligent, cloud-based
applications across ERP, CRM (including Customer Insights), Power Apps, and
Power Automate; and on-premises ERP and CRM applications. Office Commercial
Office Commercial Office Commercial is designed to increase personal, team, and
organizational productivity through a range of products and services. Growth
depends on our ability to reach new users in new markets such as frontline
workers, small and medium businesses, and growth markets, as well as add value
to our core product and service offerings to span productivity categories such
as communication, collaboration, analytics, security, and compliance. Office
Commercial revenue is mainly affected by a combination of continued installed
base growth and average revenue per user expansion, as well as the continued
shift from Office licensed on-premises to Office 365. Office Commercial is
designed to increase personal, team, and organizational productivity through a
range of products and services. Growth depends on our ability to reach new users
in new markets such as frontline workers, small and medium businesses, and
growth markets, as well as add value to our core product and service offerings
to span productivity categories such as communication, collaboration, analytics,
security, and compliance. Office Commercial revenue is mainly affected by a
combination of continued installed base growth and average revenue per user
expansion, as well as the continued shift from Office licensed on-premises to
Office 365. Office Consumer Office Consumer Office Consumer is designed to
increase personal productivity and creativity through a range of products and
services. Growth depends on our ability to reach new users, add value to our
core product set, and continue to expand our product and service offerings into
new markets. Office Consumer revenue is mainly affected by the percentage of
customers that buy Office with their new devices and the continued shift from
Office licensed on-premises to Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions. Office
Consumer Services revenue is mainly affected by the demand for communication and
storage through Skype, Outlook. com, and OneDrive, which is largely driven by
subscriptions, advertising, and the sale of minutes. Office Consumer is designed
to increase personal productivity and creativity through a range of products and
services. Growth depends on our ability to reach new users, add value to our
core product set, and continue to expand our product and service offerings into
new markets. Office Consumer revenue is mainly affected by the percentage of
customers that buy Office with their new devices and the continued shift from
Office licensed on-premises to Microsoft 365 Consumer subscriptions. Office
Consumer Services revenue is mainly affected by the demand for communication and
storage through Skype, Outlook. com, and OneDrive, which is largely driven by
subscriptions, advertising, and the sale of minutes. 11 11 PART I PART I Item 1
Item 1 LinkedIn LinkedIn LinkedIn connects the world’s professionals to make
them more productive and successful and transforms the way companies hire,
market, sell, and learn. Our vision is to create economic opportunity for every
member of the global workforce through the ongoing development of the world’s
first Economic Graph, a digital representation of the global economy. In
addition to LinkedIn’s free services, LinkedIn offers monetized solutions:
Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium Subscriptions, and Sales
Solutions. Talent Solutions provide insights for workforce planning and tools to
hire, nurture, and develop talent. Talent Solutions also includes Learning
Solutions, which help businesses close critical skills gaps in times where
companies are having to do more with existing talent. Marketing Solutions help
companies reach, engage, and convert their audiences at scale. Premium
Subscriptions enable professionals to manage their professional identity, grow
their network, find jobs, and connect with talent through additional services
like premium search. Sales Solutions help companies strengthen customer
relationships, empower teams with digital selling tools, and acquire new
opportunities. LinkedIn has over 950 million members and has offices around the
globe. Growth will depend on our ability to increase the number of LinkedIn
members and our ability to continue offering services that provide value for our
members and increase their engagement. LinkedIn revenue is mainly affected by
demand from enterprises and professional organizations for subscriptions to
Talent Solutions, Sales Solutions, and Premium Subscriptions offerings, as well
as member engagement and the quality of the sponsored content delivered to those
members to drive Marketing Solutions. LinkedIn connects the world’s
professionals to make them more productive and successful and transforms the way
companies hire, market, sell, and learn. Our vision is to create economic
opportunity for every member of the global workforce through the ongoing
development of the world’s first Economic Graph, a digital representation of the
global economy. In addition to LinkedIn’s free services, LinkedIn offers
monetized solutions: Talent Solutions, Marketing Solutions, Premium
Subscriptions, and Sales Solutions. Talent Solutions provide insights for
workforce planning and tools to hire, nurture, and develop talent. Talent
Solutions also includes Learning Solutions, which help businesses close critical
skills gaps in times where companies are having to do more with existing talent.
Marketing Solutions help companies reach, engage, and convert their audiences at
scale. Premium Subscriptions enable professionals to manage their professional
identity, grow their network, find jobs, and connect with talent through
additional services like premium search. Sales Solutions help companies
strengthen customer relationships, empower teams with digital selling tools, and
acquire new opportunities. LinkedIn has over 950 million members and has offices
around the globe. Growth will depend on our ability to increase the number of
LinkedIn members and our ability to continue offering services that provide
value for our members and increase their engagement. LinkedIn revenue is mainly
affected by demand from enterprises and professional organizations for
subscriptions to Talent Solutions, Sales Solutions, and Premium Subscriptions
offerings, as well as member engagement and the quality of the sponsored content
delivered to those members to drive Marketing Solutions. Dynamics Dynamics
Dynamics provides cloud-based and on-premises business solutions for financial
management, enterprise resource planning (“ERP”), customer relationship
management (“CRM”), supply chain management, and other application development
platforms for small and medium businesses, large organizations, and divisions of
global enterprises. Dynamics revenue is driven by the number of users licensed
and applications consumed, expansion of average revenue per user, and the
continued shift to Dynamics 365, a unified set of cloud-based intelligent
business applications, including Power Apps and Power Automate. Dynamics
provides cloud-based and on-premises business solutions for financial
management, enterprise resource planning (“ERP”), customer relationship
management (“CRM”), supply chain management, and other application development
platforms for small and medium businesses, large organizations, and divisions of
global enterprises. Dynamics revenue is driven by the number of users licensed
and applications consumed, expansion of average revenue per user, and the
continued shift to Dynamics 365, a unified set of cloud-based intelligent
business applications, including Power Apps and Power Automate. Competition
Competition Competitors to Office include software and global application
vendors, such as Apple, Cisco Systems, Meta, Google, Okta, Proofpoint, Slack,
Symantec, Zoom, and numerous web-based and mobile application competitors as
well as local application developers. Apple distributes versions of its pre-
installed application software, such as email and calendar products, through its
PCs, tablets, and phones. Cisco Systems is using its position in enterprise
communications equipment to grow its unified communications business. Meta
offers communication tools to enable productivity and engagement within
organizations. Google provides a hosted messaging and productivity suite. Slack
provides teamwork and collaboration software. Zoom offers videoconferencing and
cloud phone solutions. Okta, Proofpoint, and Symantec provide security solutions
across email security, information protection, identity, and governance. Web-
based offerings competing with individual applications have also positioned
themselves as alternatives to our products and services. We compete by providing
powerful, flexible, secure, integrated industry-specific, and easy-to-use
productivity and collaboration tools and services that create comprehensive
solutions and work well with technologies our customers already have both on-
premises or in the cloud. Competitors to Office include software and global
application vendors, such as Apple, Cisco Systems, Meta, Google, Okta,
Proofpoint, Slack, Symantec, Zoom, and numerous web-based and mobile application
competitors as well as local application developers. Apple distributes versions
of its pre-installed application software, such as email and calendar products,
through its PCs, tablets, and phones. Cisco Systems is using its position in
enterprise communications equipment to grow its unified communications business.
Meta offers communication tools to enable productivity and engagement within
organizations. Google provides a hosted messaging and productivity suite. Slack
provides teamwork and collaboration software. Zoom offers videoconferencing and
cloud phone solutions. Okta, Proofpoint, and Symantec provide security solutions
across email security, information protection, identity, and governance. Web-
based offerings competing with individual applications have also positioned
themselves as alternatives to our products and services. We compete by providing
powerful, flexible, secure, integrated industry-specific, and easy-to-use
productivity and collaboration tools and services that create comprehensive
solutions and work well with technologies our customers already have both on-
premises or in the cloud. LinkedIn faces competition from online professional
networks, recruiting companies, talent management companies, and larger
companies that are focusing on talent management and human resource services;
job boards; traditional recruiting firms; and companies that provide learning
and development products and services. Marketing Solutions competes with online
and offline outlets that generate revenue from advertisers and marketers, and
Sales Solutions competes with online and offline outlets for companies with lead
generation and customer intelligence and insights. LinkedIn faces competition
from online professional networks, recruiting companies, talent management
companies, and larger companies that are focusing on talent management and human
resource services; job boards; traditional recruiting firms; and companies that
provide learning and development products and services. Marketing Solutions
competes with online and offline outlets that generate revenue from advertisers
and marketers, and Sales Solutions competes with online and offline outlets for
companies with lead generation and customer intelligence and insights. Dynamics
competes with cloud-based and on-premises business solution providers such as
Oracle, Salesforce, and SAP. Dynamics competes with cloud-based and on-premises
business solution providers such as Oracle, Salesforce, and SAP. 12 12 PART I
PART I Item 1 Item 1 Intelligent Cloud Intelligent Cloud Our Intelligent Cloud
segment consists of our public, private, and hybrid server products and cloud
services that can power modern business and developers. This segment primarily
comprises: Our Intelligent Cloud segment consists of our public, private, and
hybrid server products and cloud services that can power modern business and
developers. This segment primarily comprises: •Server products and cloud
services, including Azure and other cloud services; SQL Server, Windows Server,
Visual Studio, System Center, and related Client Access Licenses (“CALs”); and
Nuance and GitHub. • Server products and cloud services, including Azure and
other cloud services; SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, System Center,
and related Client Access Licenses (“CALs”); and Nuance and GitHub. Server
products and cloud services, including Azure and other cloud services; SQL
Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio, System Center, and related Client Access
Licenses (“CALs”); and Nuance and GitHub. •Enterprise Services, including
Enterprise Support Services, Industry Solutions (formerly Microsoft Consulting
Services), and Nuance professional services. • Enterprise Services, including
Enterprise Support Services, Industry Solutions (formerly Microsoft Consulting
Services), and Nuance professional services. Enterprise Services, including
Enterprise Support Services, Industry Solutions (formerly Microsoft Consulting
Services ), and Nuance professional services. Server Products and Cloud Services
Server Products and Cloud Services Azure is a comprehensive set of cloud
services that offer developers, IT professionals, and enterprises freedom to
build, deploy, and manage applications on any platform or device. Customers can
use Azure through our global network of datacenters for computing, networking,
storage, mobile and web application services, AI, IoT, cognitive services, and
machine learning. Azure enables customers to devote more resources to
development and use of applications that benefit their organizations, rather
than managing on-premises hardware and software. Azure revenue is mainly
affected by infrastructure-as-a-service and platform-as-a-service consumption-
based services, and per user-based services such as Enterprise Mobility +
Security. Azure is a comprehensive set of cloud services that offer developers,
IT professionals, and enterprises freedom to build, deploy, and manage
applications on any platform or device. Customers can use Azure through our
global network of datacenters for computing, networking, storage, mobile and web
application services, AI, IoT, cognitive services, and machine learning. Azure
enables customers to devote more resources to development and use of
applications that benefit their organizations, rather than managing on-premises
hardware and software. Azure revenue is mainly affected by infrastructure-as-a-
service and platform-as-a-service consumption-based services, and per user-based
services such as Enterprise Mobility + Security. Azure AI offerings provide a
competitive advantage as companies seek ways to optimize and scale their
business with machine learning. Azure’s purpose-built, AI-optimized
infrastructure allows advanced models, including GPT-4 services designed for
developers and data scientists, to do more with less. Customers can integrate
large language models and develop the next generation of AI apps and services.
Azure AI offerings provide a competitive advantage as companies seek ways to
optimize and scale their business with machine learning. Azure’s purpose-built,
AI-optimized infrastructure allows advanced models, including GPT-4 services
designed for developers and data scientists, to do more with less. Customers can
integrate large language models and develop the next generation of AI apps and
services. Our server products are designed to make IT professionals, developers,
and their systems more productive and efficient. Server software is integrated
server infrastructure and middleware designed to support software applications
built on the Windows Server operating system. This includes the server platform,
database, business intelligence, storage, management and operations,
virtualization, service-oriented architecture platform, security, and identity
software. We also license standalone and software development lifecycle tools
for software architects, developers, testers, and project managers. Server
products revenue is mainly affected by purchases through volume licensing
programs, licenses sold to original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”), and retail
packaged products. CALs provide access rights to certain server products,
including SQL Server and Windows Server, and revenue is reported along with the
associated server product. Our server products are designed to make IT
professionals, developers, and their systems more productive and efficient.
Server software is integrated server infrastructure and middleware designed to
support software applications built on the Windows Server operating system. This
includes the server platform, database, business intelligence, storage,
management and operations, virtualization, service-oriented architecture
platform, security, and identity software. We also license standalone and
software development lifecycle tools for software architects, developers,
testers, and project managers. Server products revenue is mainly affected by
purchases through volume licensing programs, licenses sold to original equipment
manufacturers (“OEM”), and retail packaged products. CALs provide access rights
to certain server products, including SQL Server and Windows Server, and revenue
is reported along with the associated server product. Nuance and GitHub include
both cloud and on-premises offerings. Nuance provides healthcare and enterprise
AI solutions. GitHub provides a collaboration platform and code hosting service
for developers. Nuance and GitHub include both cloud and on-premises offerings.
Nuance provides healthcare and enterprise AI solutions. GitHub provides a
collaboration platform and code hosting service for developers. Enterprise
Services Enterprise Services Enterprise Services, including Enterprise Support
Services, Industry Solutions, and Nuance Professional Services, assist customers
in developing, deploying, and managing Microsoft server solutions, Microsoft
desktop solutions, and Nuance conversational AI and ambient intelligent
solutions, along with providing training and certification to developers and IT
professionals on various Microsoft products. Enterprise Services, including
Enterprise Support Services, Industry Solutions, and Nuance Professional
Services, assist customers in developing, deploying, and managing Microsoft
server solutions, Microsoft desktop solutions, and Nuance conversational AI and
ambient intelligent solutions, along with providing training and certification
to developers and IT professionals on various Microsoft products. Competition
Competition Azure faces diverse competition from companies such as Amazon,
Google, IBM, Oracle, VMware, and open source offerings. Azure’s competitive
advantage includes enabling a hybrid cloud, allowing deployment of existing
datacenters with our public cloud into a single, cohesive infrastructure, and
the ability to run at a scale that meets the needs of businesses of all sizes
and complexities. Our AI offerings compete with AI products from hyperscalers
such as Amazon Bedrock, Amazon CodeWhisperer, and Google AI, as well as products
from other emerging competitors, many of which are also current or potential
partners, including Meta’s LLaMA2 and other open source solutions. Our
Enterprise Mobility + Security offerings also compete with products from a range
of competitors including identity vendors, security solution vendors, and
numerous other security point solution vendors. We believe our cloud’s global
scale, coupled with our broad portfolio of identity and security solutions,
allows us to effectively solve complex cybersecurity challenges for our
customers and differentiates us from the competition. Azure faces diverse
competition from companies such as Amazon, Google, IBM, Oracle, VMware, and open
source offerings. Azure’s competitive advantage includes enabling a hybrid
cloud, allowing deployment of existing datacenters with our public cloud into a
single, cohesive infrastructure, and the ability to run at a scale that meets
the needs of businesses of all sizes and complexities. Our AI offerings compete
with AI products from hyperscalers such as Amazon Bedrock, Amazon CodeWhisperer,
and Google AI, as well as products from other emerging competitors, many of
which are also current or potential partners, including Meta’s LLaMA2 and other
open source solutions. Our Enterprise Mobility + Security offerings also compete
with products from a range of competitors including identity vendors, security
solution vendors, and numerous other security point solution vendors. We believe
our cloud’s global scale, coupled with our broad portfolio of identity and
security solutions, allows us to effectively solve complex cybersecurity
challenges for our customers and differentiates us from the competition. 13 13
PART I PART I Item 1 Item 1 Our server products face competition from a wide
variety of server operating systems and applications offered by companies with a
range of market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers such as
Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Oracle offer their own versions of the Unix operating
system preinstalled on server hardware. Nearly all computer manufacturers offer
server hardware for the Linux operating system, and many contribute to Linux
operating system development. The competitive position of Linux has also
benefited from the large number of compatible applications now produced by many
commercial and non-commercial software developers. A number of companies, such
as Red Hat, supply versions of Linux. Our server products face competition from
a wide variety of server operating systems and applications offered by companies
with a range of market approaches. Vertically integrated computer manufacturers
such as Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and Oracle offer their own versions of the Unix
operating system preinstalled on server hardware. Nearly all computer
manufacturers offer server hardware for the Linux operating system, and many
contribute to Linux operating system development. The competitive position of
Linux has also benefited from the large number of compatible applications now
produced by many commercial and non-commercial software developers. A number of
companies, such as Red Hat, supply versions of Linux. We compete to provide
enterprise-wide computing solutions and point solutions with numerous commercial
software vendors that offer solutions and middleware technology platforms,
software applications for connectivity (both Internet and intranet), security,
hosting, database, and e-business servers. IBM and Oracle lead a group of
companies focused on the Java Platform Enterprise Edition that competes with our
enterprise-wide computing solutions. Commercial competitors for our server
applications for PC-based distributed client-server environments include CA
Technologies, IBM, and Oracle. Our web application platform software competes
with open source software such as Apache, Linux, MySQL, and PHP. In middleware,
we compete against Java vendors. We compete to provide enterprise-wide computing
solutions and point solutions with numerous commercial software vendors that
offer solutions and middleware technology platforms, software applications for
connectivity (both Internet and intranet), security, hosting, database, and
e-business servers. IBM and Oracle lead a group of companies focused on the Java
Platform Enterprise Edition that competes with our enterprise-wide computing
solutions. Commercial competitors for our server applications for PC-based
distributed client-server environments include CA Technologies, IBM, and Oracle.
Our web application platform software competes with open source software such as
Apache, Linux, MySQL, and PHP. In middleware, we compete against Java vendors.
Our database, business intelligence, and data warehousing solutions offerings
compete with products from IBM, Oracle, SAP, Snowflake, and other companies. Our
system management solutions compete with server management and server
virtualization platform providers, such as BMC, CA Technologies, Hewlett-
Packard, IBM, and VMware. Our products for software developers compete against
offerings from Adobe, IBM, Oracle, and other companies, and also against open
source projects, including Eclipse (sponsored by CA Technologies, IBM, Oracle,
and SAP), PHP, and Ruby on Rails. Our database, business intelligence, and data
warehousing solutions offerings compete with products from IBM, Oracle, SAP,
Snowflake, and other companies. Our system management solutions compete with
server management and server virtualization platform providers, such as BMC, CA
Technologies, Hewlett-Packard, IBM, and VMware. Our products for software
developers compete against offerings from Adobe, IBM, Oracle, and other
companies, and also against open source projects, including Eclipse (sponsored
by CA Technologies, IBM, Oracle, and SAP), PHP, and Ruby on Rails. We believe
our server products provide customers with advantages in performance, total
costs of ownership, and productivity by delivering superior applications,
development tools, compatibility with a broad base of hardware and software
applications, security, and manageability. We believe our server products
provide customers with advantages in performance, total costs of ownership, and
productivity by delivering superior applications, development tools,
compatibility with a broad base of hardware and software applications, security,
and manageability. Our Enterprise Services business competes with a wide range
of companies that provide strategy and business planning, application
development, and infrastructure services, including multinational consulting
firms and small niche businesses focused on specific technologies. Our
Enterprise Services business competes with a wide range of companies that
provide strategy and business planning, application development, and
infrastructure services, including multinational consulting firms and small
niche businesses focused on specific technologies. More Personal Computing More
Personal Computing Our More Personal Computing segment consists of products and
services that put customers at the center of the experience with our technology.
This segment primarily comprises: Our More Personal Computing segment consists
of products and services that put customers at the center of the experience with
our technology. This segment primarily comprises: •Windows, including Windows
OEM licensing (“Windows OEM”) and other non-volume licensing of the Windows
operating system; Windows Commercial, comprising volume licensing of the Windows
operating system, Windows cloud services, and other Windows commercial
offerings; patent licensing; and Windows IoT. • Windows, including Windows OEM
licensing (“Windows OEM”) and other non-volume licensing of the Windows
operating system; Windows Commercial, comprising volume licensing of the Windows
operating system, Windows cloud services, and other Windows commercial
offerings; patent licensing; and Windows IoT. Windows, including Windows OEM
licensing (“Windows OEM”) and other non-volume licensing of the Windows
operating system; Windows Commercial, comprising volume licensing of the Windows
operating system, Windows cloud services, and other Windows commercial
offerings; patent licensing; and Windows IoT. •Devices, including Surface,
HoloLens, and PC accessories. • Devices, including Surface, HoloLens, and PC
accessories. Devices, including Surface, HoloLens, and PC accessories. •Gaming,
including Xbox hardware and Xbox content and services, comprising first- and
third-party content (including games and in-game content), Xbox Game Pass and
other subscriptions, Xbox Cloud Gaming, advertising, third-party disc royalties,
and other cloud services. • Gaming, including Xbox hardware and Xbox content and
services, comprising first- and third-party content (including games and in-game
content), Xbox Game Pass and other subscriptions, Xbox Cloud Gaming,
advertising, third-party disc royalties, and other cloud services. Gaming,
including Xbox hardware and Xbox content and services, comprising first- and
third-party content (including games and in-game content), Xbox Game Pass and
other subscriptions, Xbox Cloud Gaming, advertising, third-party disc royalties,
and other cloud services. •Search and news advertising, comprising Bing
(including Bing Chat), Microsoft News, Microsoft Edge, and third-party
affiliates. • Search and news advertising, comprising Bing (including Bing
Chat), Microsoft News, Microsoft Edge, and third-party affiliates. Search and
news advertising, comprising Bing (including Bing Chat), Microsoft News,
Microsoft Edge, and third-party affiliates. Windows Windows The Windows
operating system is designed to deliver a more personal computing experience for
users by enabling consistency of experience, applications, and information
across their devices. Windows OEM revenue is impacted significantly by the
number of Windows operating system licenses purchased by OEMs, which they pre-
install on the devices they sell. In addition to computing device market volume,
Windows OEM revenue is impacted by: The Windows operating system is designed to
deliver a more personal computing experience for users by enabling consistency
of experience, applications, and information across their devices. Windows OEM
revenue is impacted significantly by the number of Windows operating system
licenses purchased by OEMs, which they pre-install on the devices they sell. In
addition to computing device market volume, Windows OEM revenue is impacted by:
•The mix of computing devices based on form factor and screen size. • The mix of
computing devices based on form factor and screen size. The mix of computing
devices based on form factor and screen size. •Differences in device market
demand between developed markets and growth markets. • Differences in device
market demand between developed markets and growth markets. Differences in
device market demand between developed markets and growth markets. •Attachment
of Windows to devices shipped. • Attachment of Windows to devices shipped.
Attachment of Windows to devices shipped. 14 14 PART I PART I Item 1 Item 1
•Customer mix between consumer, small and medium businesses, and large
enterprises. • Customer mix between consumer, small and medium businesses, and
large enterprises. Customer mix between consumer, small and medium businesses,
and large enterprises. •Changes in inventory levels in the OEM channel. •
Changes in inventory levels in the OEM channel. Changes in inventory levels in
the OEM channel. •Pricing changes and promotions, pricing variation that occurs
when the mix of devices manufactured shifts from local and regional system
builders to large multinational OEMs, and different pricing of Windows versions
licensed. • Pricing changes and promotions, pricing variation that occurs when
the mix of devices manufactured shifts from local and regional system builders
to large multinational OEMs, and different pricing of Windows versions licensed.
Pricing changes and promotions, pricing variation that occurs when the mix of
devices manufactured shifts from local and regional system builders to large
multinational OEMs, and different pricing of Windows versions licensed.
•Constraints in the supply chain of device components. • Constraints in the
supply chain of device components. Constraints in the supply chain of device
components. •Piracy. • Piracy. Piracy. Windows Commercial revenue, which
includes volume licensing of the Windows operating system and Windows cloud
services such as Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, is affected mainly by the
demand from commercial customers for volume licensing and Software Assurance
(“SA”), as well as advanced security offerings. Windows Commercial revenue often
reflects the number of information workers in a licensed enterprise and is
relatively independent of the number of PCs sold in a given year. Windows
Commercial revenue, which includes volume licensing of the Windows operating
system and Windows cloud services such as Microsoft Defender for Endpoint, is
affected mainly by the demand from commercial customers for volume licensing and
Software Assurance (“SA”), as well as advanced security offerings. Windows
Commercial revenue often reflects the number of information workers in a
licensed enterprise and is relatively independent of the number of PCs sold in a
given year. Patent licensing includes our programs to license patents we own for
use across a broad array of technology areas, including mobile devices and cloud
offerings. Patent licensing includes our programs to license patents we own for
use across a broad array of technology areas, including mobile devices and cloud
offerings. Windows IoT extends the power of Windows and the cloud to intelligent
systems by delivering specialized operating systems, tools, and services for use
in embedded devices. Windows IoT extends the power of Windows and the cloud to
intelligent systems by delivering specialized operating systems, tools, and
services for use in embedded devices. Devices Devices We design and sell
devices, including Surface, HoloLens, and PC accessories. Our devices are
designed to enable people and organizations to connect to the people and content
that matter most using Windows and integrated Microsoft products and services.
Surface is designed to help organizations, students, and consumers be more
productive. Growth in Devices is dependent on total PC shipments, the ability to
attract new customers, our product roadmap, and expanding into new categories.
We design and sell devices, including Surface, HoloLens, and PC accessories. Our
devices are designed to enable people and organizations to connect to the people
and content that matter most using Windows and integrated Microsoft products and
services. Surface is designed to help organizations, students, and consumers be
more productive. Growth in Devices is dependent on total PC shipments, the
ability to attract new customers, our product roadmap, and expanding into new
categories. Gaming Gaming Our gaming platform is designed to provide a variety
of entertainment through a unique combination of content, community, and cloud
services. Our exclusive game content is created through Xbox Game Studios, a
collection of first-party studios creating iconic and differentiated gaming
experiences. We continue to invest in new gaming studios and content to expand
our intellectual property roadmap and leverage new content creators. These
unique gaming experiences are the cornerstone of Xbox Game Pass, a subscription
service and gaming community with access to a curated library of over 400 first-
and third-party console and PC titles. Our gaming platform is designed to
provide a variety of entertainment through a unique combination of content,
community, and cloud services. Our exclusive game content is created through
Xbox Game Studios, a collection of first-party studios creating iconic and
differentiated gaming experiences. We continue to invest in new gaming studios
and content to expand our intellectual property roadmap and leverage new content
creators. These unique gaming experiences are the cornerstone of Xbox Game Pass,
a subscription service and gaming community with access to a curated library of
over 400 first- and third-party console and PC titles. The gamer remains at the
heart of the Xbox ecosystem. We are identifying new opportunities to attract
gamers across a variety of different end points through our first- and third-
party content and business diversification across subscriptions, ads, and
digital stores. We’ve seen new devices from third-party manufacturers along with
key PC and mobile end points that help us empower gamers to play in a way that
is most convenient to them. We are focused on growing the platform and expanding
to new ecosystems to engage as many gamers as possible. The gamer remains at the
heart of the Xbox ecosystem. We are identifying new opportunities to attract
gamers across a variety of different end points through our first- and third-
party content and business diversification across subscriptions, ads, and
digital stores. We’ve seen new devices from third-party manufacturers along with
key PC and mobile end points that help us empower gamers to play in a way that
is most convenient to them. We are focused on growing the platform and expanding
to new ecosystems to engage as many gamers as possible. Xbox enables people to
connect and share online gaming experiences that are accessible on Xbox
consoles, Windows-enabled devices, and other devices. Xbox is designed to
benefit users by providing access to a network of certified applications and
services and to benefit our developer and partner ecosystems by providing access
to a large customer base. Xbox revenue is mainly affected by subscriptions and
sales of first- and third-party content, as well as advertising. Growth of our
Gaming business is determined by the overall active user base through Xbox
enabled content, availability of games, providing exclusive game content that
gamers seek, the computational power and reliability of the devices used to
access our content and services, and the ability to create new experiences
through first-party content creators. Xbox enables people to connect and share
online gaming experiences that are accessible on Xbox consoles, Windows-enabled
devices, and other devices. Xbox is designed to benefit users by providing
access to a network of certified applications and services and to benefit our
developer and partner ecosystems by providing access to a large customer base.
Xbox revenue is mainly affected by subscriptions and sales of first- and third-
party content, as well as advertising. Growth of our Gaming business is
determined by the overall active user base through Xbox enabled content,
availability of games, providing exclusive game content that gamers seek, the
computational power and reliability of the devices used to access our content
and services, and the ability to create new experiences through first-party
content creators. 15 15 PART I PART I Item 1 Item 1 Search and News Advertising
Search and News Advertising Our Search and news advertising business is designed
to deliver relevant search, native, and display advertising to a global
audience. Our Microsoft Edge browser and Bing Chat capabilities are key tools to
enable user acquisition and engagement, while our technology platform enables
accelerated delivery of digital advertising solutions. In addition to first-
party tools, we have several partnerships with companies, such as Yahoo, through
which we provide and monetize search offerings. Growth depends on our ability to
attract new users, understand intent, and match intent with relevant content on
advertising offerings. Our Search and news advertising business is designed to
deliver relevant search, native, and display advertising to a global audience.
Our Microsoft Edge browser and Bing Chat capabilities are key tools to enable
user acquisition and engagement, while our technology platform enables
accelerated delivery of digital advertising solutions. In addition to first-
party tools, we have several partnerships with companies, such as Yahoo, through
which we provide and monetize search offerings. Growth depends on our ability to
attract new users, understand intent, and match intent with relevant content on
advertising offerings. Competition Competition Windows faces competition from
various software products and from alternative platforms and devices, mainly
from Apple and Google. We believe Windows competes effectively by giving
customers choice, value, flexibility, security, an easy-to-use interface, and
compatibility with a broad range of hardware and software applications,
including those that enable productivity. Windows faces competition from various
software products and from alternative platforms and devices, mainly from Apple
and Google. We believe Windows competes effectively by giving customers choice,
value, flexibility, security, an easy-to-use interface, and compatibility with a
broad range of hardware and software applications, including those that enable
productivity. Devices face competition from various computer, tablet, and
hardware manufacturers who offer a unique combination of high-quality industrial
design and innovative technologies across various price points. These
manufacturers, many of which are also current or potential partners and
customers, include Apple and our Windows OEMs. Devices face competition from
various computer, tablet, and hardware manufacturers who offer a unique
combination of high-quality industrial design and innovative technologies across
various price points. These manufacturers, many of which are also current or
potential partners and customers, include Apple and our Windows OEMs. Xbox and
our cloud gaming services face competition from various online gaming ecosystems
and game streaming services, including those operated by Amazon, Apple, Meta,
and Tencent. We also compete with other providers of entertainment services such
as video streaming platforms. Our gaming platform competes with console
platforms from Nintendo and Sony, both of which have a large, established base
of customers. We believe our gaming platform is effectively positioned against,
and uniquely differentiated from, competitive products and services based on
significant innovation in hardware architecture, user interface, developer
tools, online gaming and entertainment services, and continued strong exclusive
content from our own first-party game franchises as well as other digital
content offerings. Xbox and our cloud gaming services face competition from
various online gaming ecosystems and game streaming services, including those
operated by Amazon, Apple, Meta, and Tencent. We also compete with other
providers of entertainment services such as video streaming platforms. Our
gaming platform competes with console platforms from Nintendo and Sony, both of
which have a large, established base of customers. We believe our gaming
platform is effectively positioned against, and uniquely differentiated from,
competitive products and services based on significant innovation in hardware
architecture, user interface, developer tools, online gaming and entertainment
services, and continued strong exclusive content from our own first-party game
franchises as well as other digital content offerings. Our Search and news
advertising business competes with Google and a wide array of websites, social
platforms like Meta, and portals that provide content and online offerings to
end users. Our Search and news advertising business competes with Google and a
wide array of websites, social platforms like Meta, and portals that provide
content and online offerings to end users. OPERATIONS OPERATIONS We have
regional operations service centers that support our operations, including
customer contract and order processing, billing, credit and collections,
information processing, and vendor management and logistics. The center in
Ireland supports the African, Asia-Pacific, European, and Middle East regions;
and the centers in Arlington, Virginia, Atlanta, Georgia, Charlotte, North
Carolina, Fargo, North Dakota, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Redmond, Washington,
Reno, Nevada, and Puerto Rico support the American regions. We have regional
operations service centers that support our operations, including customer
contract and order processing, billing, credit and collections, information
processing, and vendor management and logistics. The center in Ireland supports
the African, Asia-Pacific, European, and Middle East regions; and the centers in
Arlington, Virginia, Atlanta, Georgia, Charlotte, North Carolina, Fargo, North
Dakota, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, Redmond, Washington, Reno, Nevada, and Puerto
Rico support the American regions. In addition to our operations centers, we
also operate datacenters throughout each of these regions. We continue to
identify and evaluate opportunities to expand our datacenter locations and
increase our server capacity to meet the evolving needs of our customers,
particularly given the growing demand for AI services. Our datacenters depend on
the availability of permitted and buildable land, predictable energy, networking
supplies, and servers, including graphics processing units (“GPUs”) and other
components. In addition to our operations centers, we also operate datacenters
throughout each of these regions. We continue to identify and evaluate
opportunities to expand our datacenter locations and increase our server
capacity to meet the evolving needs of our customers, particularly given the
growing demand for AI services. Our datacenters depend on the availability of
permitted and buildable land, predictable energy, networking supplies, and
servers, including graphics processing units (“GPUs”) and other components. Our
devices are primarily manufactured by third-party contract manufacturers. For
the majority of our products, we have the ability to use other manufacturers if
a current vendor becomes unavailable or unable to meet our requirements.
However, some of our products contain certain components for which there are
very few qualified suppliers. Extended disruptions at these suppliers could
impact our ability to manufacture devices on time to meet consumer demand. Our
devices are primarily manufactured by third-party contract manufacturers. For
the majority of our products, we have the ability to use other manufacturers if
a current vendor becomes unavailable or unable to meet our requirements.
However, some of our products contain certain components for which there are
very few qualified suppliers. Extended disruptions at these suppliers could
impact our ability to manufacture devices on time to meet consumer demand. 16 16
PART I PART I Item 1 Item 1 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
Product and Service Development, and Intellectual Property Product and Service
Development, and Intellectual Property We develop most of our products and
services internally through the following engineering groups. We develop most of
our products and services internally through the following engineering groups.
•Cloud and AI – focuses on making IT professionals, developers, partners,
independent software vendors, and their systems more productive and efficient
through development of Azure AI platform and cloud infrastructure, server,
database, CRM, ERP, software development tools and services (including GitHub),
AI cognitive services, and other business process applications and services for
enterprises. • Cloud and AI – focuses on making IT professionals, developers,
partners, independent software vendors, and their systems more productive and
efficient through development of Azure AI platform and cloud infrastructure,
server, database, CRM, ERP, software development tools and services (including
GitHub), AI cognitive services, and other business process applications and
services for enterprises. Cloud and AI – focuses on making IT professionals,
developers, partners, independent software vendors, and their systems more
productive and efficient through development of Azure AI platform and cloud
infrastructure, server, database, CRM, ERP, software development tools and
services (including GitHub), AI cognitive services, and other business process
applications and services for enterprises. •Strategic Missions and Technologies
– focuses on incubating technical products and support solutions with
transformative potential for the future of cloud computing and continued company
growth across quantum computing, Azure Space & Missions Engineering,
telecommunications, and Microsoft Federal Sales and Delivery. • Strategic
Missions and Technologies – focuses on incubating technical products and support
solutions with transformative potential for the future of cloud computing and
continued company growth across quantum computing, Azure Space & Missions
Engineering, telecommunications, and Microsoft Federal Sales and Delivery.
Strategic Missions and Technologies – focuses on incubating technical products
and support solutions with transformative potential for the future of cloud
computing and continued company growth across quantum computing, Azure Space &
Missions Engineering, telecommunications, and Microsoft Federal Sales and
Delivery. •Experiences and Devices – focuses on delivering high value end-user
experiences across our products, services, and devices, including Microsoft 365,
Windows, Microsoft Teams, Search (including Microsoft Edge and Bing Chat) and
other advertising-based services, and the Surface line of devices. • Experiences
and Devices – focuses on delivering high value end-user experiences across our
products, services, and devices, including Microsoft 365, Windows, Microsoft
Teams, Search (including Microsoft Edge and Bing Chat) and other advertising-
based services, and the Surface line of devices. Experiences and Devices –
focuses on delivering high value end-user experiences across our products,
services, and devices, including Microsoft 365, Windows, Microsoft Teams, Search
(including Microsoft Edge and Bing Chat) and other advertising-based services,
and the Surface line of devices. •Microsoft Security – focuses on delivering a
comprehensive portfolio of services that protect our customers’ digital
infrastructure through cloud platform and application security, data protection
and governance, identity and network access, and device management. • Microsoft
Security – focuses on delivering a comprehensive portfolio of services that
protect our customers’ digital infrastructure through cloud platform and
application security, data protection and governance, identity and network
access, and device management. Microsoft Security – focuses on delivering a
comprehensive portfolio of services that protect our customers’ digital
infrastructure through cloud platform and application security, data protection
and governance, identity and network access, and device management. •Technology
and Research – focuses on fundamental research, product and business
incubations, and forward-looking AI innovations that span infrastructure,
services, and applications. • Technology and Research – focuses on fundamental
research, product and business incubations, and forward-looking AI innovations
that span infrastructure, services, and applications. Technology and Research –
focuses on fundamental research, product and business incubations, and forward-
looking AI innovations that span infrastructure, services, and applications.
•LinkedIn – focuses on our services that transform the way professionals grow
their network and find jobs and the way businesses hire, market, sell, and
learn. • LinkedIn – focuses on our services that transform the way professionals
grow their network and find jobs and the way businesses hire, market, sell, and
learn. LinkedIn – focuses on our services that transform the way professionals
grow their network and find jobs and the way businesses hire, market, sell, and
learn. •Gaming – focuses on developing hardware, content, and services across a
large range of platforms to help grow our user base through game experiences and
social interaction. • Gaming – focuses on developing hardware, content, and
services across a large range of platforms to help grow our user base through
game experiences and social interaction. Gaming – focuses on developing
hardware, content, and services across a large range of platforms to help grow
our user base through game experiences and social interaction. Internal
development allows us to maintain competitive advantages that come from product
differentiation and closer technical control over our products and services. It
also gives us the freedom to decide which modifications and enhancements are
most important and when they should be implemented. We strive to obtain
information as early as possible about changing usage patterns and hardware
advances that may affect software and hardware design. Before releasing new
software platforms, and as we make significant modifications to existing
platforms, we provide application vendors with a range of resources and
guidelines for development, training, and testing. Generally, we also create
product documentation internally. Internal development allows us to maintain
competitive advantages that come from product differentiation and closer
technical control over our products and services. It also gives us the freedom
to decide which modifications and enhancements are most important and when they
should be implemented. We strive to obtain information as early as possible
about changing usage patterns and hardware advances that may affect software and
hardware design. Before releasing new software platforms, and as we make
significant modifications to existing platforms, we provide application vendors
with a range of resources and guidelines for development, training, and testing.
Generally, we also create product documentation internally. We protect our
intellectual property investments in a variety of ways. We work actively in the
U. S. and internationally to ensure the enforcement of copyright, trademark,
trade secret, and other protections that apply to our software and hardware
products, services, business plans, and branding. We are a leader among
technology companies in pursuing patents and currently have a portfolio of over
70, 000 U. S. and international patents issued and over 19, 000 pending
worldwide. While we employ much of our internally-developed intellectual
property in our products and services, we also engage in outbound licensing of
specific patented technologies that are incorporated into licensees’ products.
From time to time, we enter into broader cross-license agreements with other
technology companies covering entire groups of patents. We may also purchase or
license technology that we incorporate into our products and services. At times,
we make select intellectual property broadly available at no or low cost to
achieve a strategic objective, such as promoting industry standards, advancing
interoperability, supporting societal and/or environmental efforts, or
attracting and enabling our external development community. Our increasing
engagement with open source software will also cause us to license our
intellectual property rights broadly in certain situations. We protect our
intellectual property investments in a variety of ways. We work actively in the
U. S. and internationally to ensure the enforcement of copyright, trademark,
trade secret, and other protections that apply to our software and hardware
products, services, business plans, and branding. We are a leader among
technology companies in pursuing patents and currently have a portfolio of over
70, 000 U. S. and international patents issued and over 19, 000 pending
worldwide. While we employ much of our internally-developed intellectual
property in our products and services, we also engage in outbound licensing of
specific patented technologies that are incorporated into licensees’ products.
From time to time, we enter into broader cross-license agreements with other
technology companies covering entire groups of patents. We may also purchase or
license technology that we incorporate into our products and services. At times,
we make select intellectual property broadly available at no or low cost to
achieve a strategic objective, such as promoting industry standards, advancing
interoperability, supporting societal and/or environmental efforts, or
attracting and enabling our external development community. Our increasing
engagement with open source software will also cause us to license our
intellectual property rights broadly in certain situations. While it may be
necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of
our products and services, we believe, based upon past experience and industry
practice, such licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable
terms. We believe our continuing research and product development are not
materially dependent on any single license or other agreement with a third party
relating to the development of our products. While it may be necessary in the
future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our products and
services, we believe, based upon past experience and industry practice, such
licenses generally can be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. We believe
our continuing research and product development are not materially dependent on
any single license or other agreement with a third party relating to the
development of our products. 17 17 PART I PART I Item 1 Item 1 Investing in the
Future Investing in the Future Our success is based on our ability to create new
and compelling products, services, and experiences for our users, to initiate
and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new geographic and product
markets, and to drive broad adoption of our products and services. We invest in
a range of emerging technology trends and breakthroughs that we believe offer
significant opportunities to deliver value to our customers and growth for the
company. Based on our assessment of key technology trends, we maintain our long-
term commitment to research and development across a wide spectrum of
technologies, tools, and platforms spanning digital work and life experiences,
cloud computing, AI, devices, and operating systems. Our success is based on our
ability to create new and compelling products, services, and experiences for our
users, to initiate and embrace disruptive technology trends, to enter new
geographic and product markets, and to drive broad adoption of our products and
services. We invest in a range of emerging technology trends and breakthroughs
that we believe offer significant opportunities to deliver value to our
customers and growth for the company. Based on our assessment of key technology
trends, we maintain our long-term commitment to research and development across
a wide spectrum of technologies, tools, and platforms spanning digital work and
life experiences, cloud computing, AI, devices, and operating systems. While our
main product research and development facilities are located in Redmond,
Washington, we also operate research and development facilities in other parts
of the U. S. and around the world. This global approach helps us remain
competitive in local markets and enables us to continue to attract top talent
from across the world. While our main product research and development
facilities are located in Redmond, Washington, we also operate research and
development facilities in other parts of the U. S. and around the world. This
global approach helps us remain competitive in local markets and enables us to
continue to attract top talent from across the world. We plan to continue to
make significant investments in a broad range of product research and
development activities, and as appropriate we will coordinate our research and
development across operating segments and leverage the results across the
company. We plan to continue to make significant investments in a broad range of
product research and development activities, and as appropriate we will
coordinate our research and development across operating segments and leverage
the results across the company. In addition to our main research and development
operations, we also operate Microsoft Research. Microsoft Research is one of the
world’s largest corporate research organizations, often working in close
collaboration with top universities around the world, and is focused on
advancing the state-of-the-art in computer science and a broad range of other
disciplines. Our investment in fundamental research provides us a unique
perspective on future trends and contributes to our innovation. In addition to
our main research and development operations, we also operate Microsoft
Research. Microsoft Research is one of the world’s largest corporate research
organizations, often working in close collaboration with top universities around
the world, and is focused on advancing the state-of-the-art in computer science
and a broad range of other disciplines. Our investment in fundamental research
provides us a unique perspective on future trends and contributes to our
innovation. DISTRIBUTION, SALES, AND MARKETING DISTRIBUTION, SALES, AND
MARKETING We market and distribute our products and services through the
following channels: OEMs, direct, and distributors and resellers. Our sales
organization performs a variety of functions, including working directly with
commercial enterprises and public-sector organizations worldwide to identify and
meet their technology and digital transformation requirements; managing OEM
relationships; and supporting system integrators, independent software vendors,
and other partners who engage directly with our customers to perform sales,
consulting, and fulfillment functions for our products and services. We market
and distribute our products and services through the following channels: OEMs,
direct, and distributors and resellers. Our sales organization performs a
variety of functions, including working directly with commercial enterprises and
public-sector organizations worldwide to identify and meet their technology and
digital transformation requirements; managing OEM relationships; and supporting
system integrators, independent software vendors, and other partners who engage
directly with our customers to perform sales, consulting, and fulfillment
functions for our products and services. OEMs OEMs We distribute our products
and services through OEMs that pre-install our software on new devices and
servers they sell. The largest component of the OEM business is the Windows
operating system pre-installed on devices. OEMs also sell devices pre-installed
with other Microsoft products and services, including applications such as
Office and the capability to subscribe to Office 365. We distribute our products
and services through OEMs that pre-install our software on new devices and
servers they sell. The largest component of the OEM business is the Windows
operating system pre-installed on devices. OEMs also sell devices pre-installed
with other Microsoft products and services, including applications such as
Office and the capability to subscribe to Office 365. There are two broad
categories of OEMs. The largest category of OEMs are direct OEMs as our
relationship with them is managed through a direct agreement between Microsoft
and the OEM. We have distribution agreements covering one or more of our
products with virtually all the multinational OEMs, including Dell, Hewlett-
Packard, Lenovo, and with many regional and local OEMs. The second broad
category of OEMs are system builders consisting of lower-volume PC
manufacturers, which source Microsoft software for pre-installation and local
redistribution primarily through the Microsoft distributor channel rather than
through a direct agreement or relationship with Microsoft. There are two broad
categories of OEMs. The largest category of OEMs are direct OEMs as our
relationship with them is managed through a direct agreement between Microsoft
and the OEM. We have distribution agreements covering one or more of our
products with virtually all the multinational OEMs, including Dell, Hewlett-
Packard, Lenovo, and with many regional and local OEMs. The second broad
category of OEMs are system builders consisting of lower-volume PC
manufacturers, which source Microsoft software for pre-installation and local
redistribution primarily through the Microsoft distributor channel rather than
through a direct agreement or relationship with Microsoft. Direct Direct Many
organizations that license our products and services transact directly with us
through Enterprise Agreements and Enterprise Services contracts, with sales
support from system integrators, independent software vendors, web agencies, and
partners that advise organizations on licensing our products and services
(“Enterprise Agreement Software Advisors” or “ESA”). Microsoft offers direct
sales programs targeted to reach small, medium, and corporate customers, in
addition to those offered through the reseller channel. A large network of
partner advisors support many of these sales. Many organizations that license
our products and services transact directly with us through Enterprise
Agreements and Enterprise Services contracts, with sales support from system
integrators, independent software vendors, web agencies, and partners that
advise organizations on licensing our products and services (“Enterprise
Agreement Software Advisors” or “ESA”). Microsoft offers direct sales programs
targeted to reach small, medium, and corporate customers, in addition to those
offered through the reseller channel. A large network of partner advisors
support many of these sales. We also sell commercial and consumer products and
services directly to customers, such as cloud services, search, and gaming,
through our digital marketplaces and online stores. Additionally, our Microsoft
Experience Centers are designed to facilitate deeper engagement with our
partners and customers across industries. We also sell commercial and consumer
products and services directly to customers, such as cloud services, search, and
gaming, through our digital marketplaces and online stores. Additionally, our
Microsoft Experience Centers are designed to facilitate deeper engagement with
our partners and customers across industries. 18 18 PART I PART I Item 1 Item 1
Distributors and Resellers Distributors and Resellers Organizations also license
our products and services indirectly, primarily through licensing solution
partners (“LSP”), distributors, value-added resellers (“VAR”), and retailers.
Although each type of reselling partner may reach organizations of all sizes,
LSPs are primarily engaged with large organizations, distributors resell
primarily to VARs, and VARs typically reach small and medium organizations. ESAs
are also typically authorized as LSPs and operate as resellers for our other
volume licensing programs. Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider is our main partner
program for reselling cloud services. Organizations also license our products
and services indirectly, primarily through licensing solution partners (“LSP”),
distributors, value-added resellers (“VAR”), and retailers. Although each type
of reselling partner may reach organizations of all sizes, LSPs are primarily
engaged with large organizations, distributors resell primarily to VARs, and
VARs typically reach small and medium organizations. ESAs are also typically
authorized as LSPs and operate as resellers for our other volume licensing
programs. Microsoft Cloud Solution Provider is our main partner program for
reselling cloud services. We distribute our retail packaged products primarily
through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized replicators,
resellers, and retail outlets. Individual consumers obtain these products
primarily through retail outlets. We distribute our devices through third-party
retailers. We have a network of field sales representatives and field support
personnel that solicit orders from distributors and resellers and provide
product training and sales support. We distribute our retail packaged products
primarily through independent non-exclusive distributors, authorized
replicators, resellers, and retail outlets. Individual consumers obtain these
products primarily through retail outlets. We distribute our devices through
third-party retailers. We have a network of field sales representatives and
field support personnel that solicit orders from distributors and resellers and
provide product training and sales support. Our Dynamics business solutions are
also licensed to enterprises through a global network of channel partners
providing vertical solutions and specialized services. Our Dynamics business
solutions are also licensed to enterprises through a global network of channel
partners providing vertical solutions and specialized services. LICENSING
OPTIONS LICENSING OPTIONS We offer options for organizations that want to
purchase our cloud services, on-premises software, and SA. We license software
to organizations under volume licensing agreements to allow the customer to
acquire multiple licenses of products and services instead of having to acquire
separate licenses through retail channels. We use different programs designed to
provide flexibility for organizations of various sizes. While these programs may
differ in various parts of the world, generally they include those discussed
below. We offer options for organizations that want to purchase our cloud
services, on-premises software, and SA. We license software to organizations
under volume licensing agreements to allow the customer to acquire multiple
licenses of products and services instead of having to acquire separate licenses
through retail channels. We use different programs designed to provide
flexibility for organizations of various sizes. While these programs may differ
in various parts of the world, generally they include those discussed below. SA
conveys rights to new software and upgrades for perpetual licenses released over
the contract period. It also provides support, tools, training, and other
licensing benefits to help customers deploy and use software efficiently. SA is
included with certain volume licensing agreements and is an optional purchase
with others. SA conveys rights to new software and upgrades for perpetual
licenses released over the contract period. It also provides support, tools,
training, and other licensing benefits to help customers deploy and use software
efficiently. SA is included with certain volume licensing agreements and is an
optional purchase with others. Volume Licensing Programs Volume Licensing
Programs Enterprise Agreement Enterprise Agreement Enterprise Agreements offer
large organizations a manageable volume licensing program that gives them the
flexibility to buy cloud services and software licenses under one agreement.
Enterprise Agreements are designed for medium or large organizations that want
to license cloud services and on-premises software organization-wide over a
three-year period. Organizations can elect to purchase perpetual licenses or
subscribe to licenses. SA is included. Enterprise Agreements offer large
organizations a manageable volume licensing program that gives them the
flexibility to buy cloud services and software licenses under one agreement.
Enterprise Agreements are designed for medium or large organizations that want
to license cloud services and on-premises software organization-wide over a
three-year period. Organizations can elect to purchase perpetual licenses or
subscribe to licenses. SA is included. Microsoft Customer Agreement Microsoft
Customer Agreement A Microsoft Customer Agreement is a simplified purchase
agreement presented, accepted, and stored through a digital experience. A
Microsoft Customer Agreement is a non-expiring agreement that is designed to
support all customers over time, whether purchasing through a partner or
directly from Microsoft. A Microsoft Customer Agreement is a simplified purchase
agreement presented, accepted, and stored through a digital experience. A
Microsoft Customer Agreement is a non-expiring agreement that is designed to
support all customers over time, whether purchasing through a partner or
directly from Microsoft. Microsoft Online Subscription Agreement Microsoft
Online Subscription Agreement A Microsoft Online Subscription Agreement is
designed for small and medium organizations that want to subscribe to, activate,
provision, and maintain cloud services seamlessly and directly via the web. The
agreement allows customers to acquire monthly or annual subscriptions for cloud-
based services. A Microsoft Online Subscription Agreement is designed for small
and medium organizations that want to subscribe to, activate, provision, and
maintain cloud services seamlessly and directly via the web. The agreement
allows customers to acquire monthly or annual subscriptions for cloud-based
services. Microsoft Products and Services Agreement Microsoft Products and
Services Agreement Microsoft Products and Services Agreements are designed for
medium and large organizations that want to license cloud services and on-
premises software as needed, with no organization-wide commitment, under a
single, non-expiring agreement. Organizations purchase perpetual licenses or
subscribe to licenses. SA is optional for customers that purchase perpetual
licenses. Microsoft Products and Services Agreements are designed for medium and
large organizations that want to license cloud services and on-premises software
as needed, with no organization-wide commitment, under a single, non-expiring
agreement. Organizations purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses.
SA is optional for customers that purchase perpetual licenses. 19 19 PART I PART
I Item 1 Item 1 Open Value Open Value Open Value agreements are a simple, cost-
effective way to acquire the latest Microsoft technology. These agreements are
designed for small and medium organizations that want to license cloud services
and on-premises software over a three-year period. Under Open Value agreements,
organizations can elect to purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses
and SA is included. Open Value agreements are a simple, cost-effective way to
acquire the latest Microsoft technology. These agreements are designed for small
and medium organizations that want to license cloud services and on-premises
software over a three-year period. Under Open Value agreements, organizations
can elect to purchase perpetual licenses or subscribe to licenses and SA is
included. Select Plus Select Plus A Select Plus agreement is designed for
government and academic organizations to acquire on-premises licenses at any
affiliate or department level, while realizing advantages as one organization.
Organizations purchase perpetual licenses and SA is optional. A Select Plus
agreement is designed for government and academic organizations to acquire on-
premises licenses at any affiliate or department level, while realizing
advantages as one organization. Organizations purchase perpetual licenses and SA
is optional. Partner Programs Partner Programs The Microsoft Cloud Solution
Provider Program offers customers an easy way to license the cloud services they
need in combination with the value-added services offered by their systems
integrator, managed services provider, or cloud reseller partner. Partners in
this program can easily package their own products and services to directly
provision, manage, and support their customer subscriptions. The Microsoft Cloud
Solution Provider Program offers customers an easy way to license the cloud
services they need in combination with the value-added services offered by their
systems integrator, managed services provider, or cloud reseller partner.
Partners in this program can easily package their own products and services to
directly provision, manage, and support their customer subscriptions. The
Microsoft Services Provider License Agreement allows hosting service providers
and independent software vendors who want to license eligible Microsoft software
products to provide software services and hosted applications to their end
customers. Partners license software over a three-year period and are billed
monthly based on consumption. The Microsoft Services Provider License Agreement
allows hosting service providers and independent software vendors who want to
license eligible Microsoft software products to provide software services and
hosted applications to their end customers. Partners license software over a
three-year period and are billed monthly based on consumption. The Independent
Software Vendor Royalty Program enables partners to integrate Microsoft products
into other applications and then license the unified business solution to their
end users. The Independent Software Vendor Royalty Program enables partners to
integrate Microsoft products into other applications and then license the
unified business solution to their end users. CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS Our customers
include individual consumers, small and medium organizations, large global
enterprises, public-sector institutions, Internet service providers, application
developers, and OEMs. Our practice is to ship our products promptly upon receipt
of purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog is not significant. Our
customers include individual consumers, small and medium organizations, large
global enterprises, public-sector institutions, Internet service providers,
application developers, and OEMs. Our practice is to ship our products promptly
upon receipt of purchase orders from customers; consequently, backlog is not
significant. INFORMATION ABOUT OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS INFORMATION ABOUT OUR
EXECUTIV E OFFICERS Our executive officers as of July 27, 2023 were as follows:
Our executive officers as of July 27, 2023 were as follows: Mr. Nadella was
appointed Chairman of the Board in June 2021 and Chief Executive Officer in
February 2014. He served as Executive Vice President, Cloud and Enterprise from
July 2013 until that time. From 2011 to 2013, Mr. Nadella served as President,
Server and Tools. From 2009 to 2011, he was Senior Vice President, Online
Services Division. From 2008 to 2009, he was Senior Vice President, Search,
Portal, and Advertising. Since joining Microsoft in 1992, Mr. Nadella’s roles
also included Vice President of the Business Division. Mr. Nadella also serves
on the Board of Directors of Starbucks Corporation. Mr. Nadella was appointed
Chairman of the Board in June 2021 and Chief Executive Officer in February 2014.
He served as Executive Vice President, Cloud and Enterprise from July 2013 until
that time. From 2011 to 2013, Mr. Nadella served as President, Server and Tools.
From 2009 to 2011, he was Senior Vice President, Online Services Division. From
2008 to 2009, he was Senior Vice President, Search, Portal, and Advertising.
Since joining Microsoft in 1992, Mr. Nadella’s roles also included Vice
President of the Business Division. Mr. Nadella also serves on the Board of
Directors of Starbucks Corporation. Mr. Althoff was appointed Executive Vice
President and Chief Commercial Officer in July 2021. He served as Executive Vice
President, Worldwide Commercial Business from July 2017 until that time. Prior
to that, Mr. Althoff served as the President of Microsoft North America. Mr.
Althoff joined Microsoft in March 2013 as President of Microsoft North America.
Mr. Althoff was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Commercial Officer
in July 2021. He served as Executive Vice President, Worldwide Commercial
Business from July 2017 until that time. Prior to that, Mr. Althoff served as
the President of Microsoft North America. Mr. Althoff joined Microsoft in March
2013 as President of Microsoft North America. 20 20 PART I PART I Item 1 Item 1
Mr. Capossela was appointed Executive Vice President, Marketing and Consumer
Business, and Chief Marketing Officer in July 2016. He had served as Executive
Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer since March 2014. Since joining
Microsoft in 1991, Mr. Capossela has held a variety of marketing leadership
roles in the Consumer Channels Group, and in the Microsoft Office Division where
he was responsible for marketing productivity solutions including Microsoft
Office, Office 365, SharePoint, Exchange, Skype for Business, Project, and
Visio. Mr. Capossela was appointed Executive Vice President, Marketing and
Consumer Business, and Chief Marketing Officer in July 2016. He had served as
Executive Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer since March 2014. Since
joining Microsoft in 1991, Mr. Capossela has held a variety of marketing
leadership roles in the Consumer Channels Group, and in the Microsoft Office
Division where he was responsible for marketing productivity solutions including
Microsoft Office, Office 365, SharePoint, Exchange, Skype for Business, Project,
and Visio. Ms. Hogan was appointed Executive Vice President, Human Resources in
November 2014. Prior to that Ms. Hogan was Corporate Vice President of Microsoft
Services. She also served as Corporate Vice President of Customer Service and
Support. Ms. Hogan joined Microsoft in 2003. Ms. Hogan also serves on the Board
of Directors of Alaska Air Group, Inc. Ms. Hogan was appointed Executive Vice
President, Human Resources in November 2014. Prior to that Ms. Hogan was
Corporate Vice President of Microsoft Services. She also served as Corporate
Vice President of Customer Service and Support. Ms. Hogan joined Microsoft in
2003. Ms. Hogan also serves on the Board of Directors of Alaska Air Group, Inc.
Ms. Hood was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in
July 2013, subsequent to her appointment as Chief Financial Officer in May 2013.
From 2010 to 2013, Ms. Hood was Chief Financial Officer of the Microsoft
Business Division. Since joining Microsoft in 2002, Ms. Hood has also held
finance-related positions in the Server and Tools Business and the corporate
finance organization. Ms. Hood also serves on the Board of Directors of 3M
Corporation. Ms. Hood was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer in July 2013, subsequent to her appointment as Chief Financial Officer
in May 2013. From 2010 to 2013, Ms. Hood was Chief Financial Officer of the
Microsoft Business Division. Since joining Microsoft in 2002, Ms. Hood has also
held finance-related positions in the Server and Tools Business and the
corporate finance organization. Ms. Hood also serves on the Board of Directors
of 3M Corporation. Mr. Smith was appointed Vice Chair and President in September
2021. Prior to that, he served as President and Chief Legal Officer since
September 2015. He served as Executive Vice President, General Counsel, and
Secretary from 2011 to 2015, and served as Senior Vice President, General
Counsel, and Secretary from 2001 to 2011. Mr. Smith was also named Chief
Compliance Officer in 2002. Since joining Microsoft in 1993, he was Deputy
General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for managing
the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based in Paris. Mr. Smith also
serves on the Board of Directors of Netflix, Inc. Mr. Smith was appointed Vice
Chair and President in September 2021. Prior to that, he served as President and
Chief Legal Officer since September 2015. He served as Executive Vice President,
General Counsel, and Secretary from 2011 to 2015, and served as Senior Vice
President, General Counsel, and Secretary from 2001 to 2011. Mr. Smith was also
named Chief Compliance Officer in 2002. Since joining Microsoft in 1993, he was
Deputy General Counsel for Worldwide Sales and previously was responsible for
managing the European Law and Corporate Affairs Group, based in Paris. Mr. Smith
also serves on the Board of Directors of Netflix, Inc. Mr. Young has served as
Executive Vice President, Business Development, Strategy, and Ventures since
joining Microsoft in November 2020. Prior to Microsoft, he served as the Chief
Executive Officer of McAfee, LLC from 2017 to 2020, and served as a Senior Vice
President and General Manager of Intel Security Group from 2014 until 2017, when
he led the initiative to spin out McAfee into a standalone company. Mr. Young
also serves on the Board of Directors of American Express Company. Mr. Young has
served as Executive Vice President, Business Development, Strategy, and Ventures
since joining Microsoft in November 2020. Prior to Microsoft, he served as the
Chief Executive Officer of McAfee, LLC from 2017 to 2020, and served as a Senior
Vice President and General Manager of Intel Security Group from 2014 until 2017,
when he led the initiative to spin out McAfee into a standalone company. Mr.
Young also serves on the Board of Directors of American Express Company. 21 21
PART I PART I Item 1 Item 1 AVAILABLE INFORMATION AVAILABLE INFORMATION Our
Internet address is www. microsoft. com. At our Investor Relations website, www.
microsoft. com/investor, we make available free of charge a variety of
information for investors. Our goal is to maintain the Investor Relations
website as a portal through which investors can easily find or navigate to
pertinent information about us, including: Our Internet address is www.
microsoft. com. At our Investor Relations website, www. microsoft. com/investor,
we make available free of charge a variety of information for investors. Our
goal is to maintain the Investor Relations website as a portal through which
investors can easily find or navigate to pertinent information about us,
including: •Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as
reasonably practicable after we electronically file that material with or
furnish it to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) at www. sec. gov. •
Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports
on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file that material with or furnish it to the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) at www. sec. gov. Our annual report
on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and
any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file that material with or furnish it to the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”) at www. sec. gov. •Information on our business
strategies, financial results, and metrics for investors. • Information on our
business strategies, financial results, and metrics for investors. Information
on our business strategies, financial results, and metrics for investors.
•Announcements of investor conferences, speeches, and events at which our
executives talk about our product, service, and competitive strategies. Archives
of these events are also available. • Announcements of investor conferences,
speeches, and events at which our executives talk about our product, service,
and competitive strategies. Archives of these events are also available.
Announcements of investor conferences, speeches, and events at which our
executives talk about our product, service, and competitive strategies. Archives
of these events are also available. •Press releases on quarterly earnings,
product and service announcements, legal developments, and international news. •
Press releases on quarterly earnings, product and service announcements, legal
developments, and international news. Press releases on quarterly earnings,
product and service announcements, legal developments, and international news.
•Corporate governance information including our articles of incorporation,
bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, codes of conduct and ethics,
global corporate social responsibility initiatives, and other governance-related
policies. • Corporate governance information including our articles of
incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, codes of
conduct and ethics, global corporate social responsibility initiatives, and
other governance-related policies. Corporate governance information including
our articles of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee
charters, codes of conduct and ethics, global corporate social responsibility
initiatives, and other governance-related policies. •Other news and
announcements that we may post from time to time that investors might find
useful or interesting. • Other news and announcements that we may post from time
to time that investors might find useful or interesting. Other news and
announcements that we may post from time to time that investors might find
useful or interesting. •Opportunities to sign up for email alerts to have
information pushed in real time. • Opportunities to sign up for email alerts to
have information pushed in real time. Opportunities to sign up for email alerts
to have information pushed in real time. We publish a variety of reports and
resources related to our Corporate Social Responsibility programs and progress
on our Reports Hub website, www. microsoft. com/corporate-
responsibility/reports-hub, including reports on sustainability, responsible
sourcing, accessibility, digital trust, and public policy engagement. We publish
a variety of reports and resources related to our Corporate Social
Responsibility programs and progress on our Reports Hub website, www. microsoft.
com/corporate-responsibility/reports-hub, including reports on sustainability,
responsible sourcing, accessibility, digital trust, and public policy
engagement. The information found on these websites is not part of, or
incorporated by reference into, this or any other report we file with, or
furnish to, the SEC. In addition to these channels, we use social media to
communicate to the public. It is possible that the information we post on social
media could be deemed to be material to investors. We encourage investors, the
media, and others interested in Microsoft to review the information we post on
the social media channels listed on our Investor Relations website. The
information found on these websites is not part of, or incorporated by reference
into, this or any other report we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. In addition
to these channels, we use social media to communicate to the public. It is
possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be
material to investors. We encourage investors, the media, and others interested
in Microsoft to review the information we post on the social media channels
listed on our Investor Relations website. 22 22 PART I PART I Item 1A Item 1A
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS ITEM 1A. RIS K FACTORS Our operations and financial
results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those
described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition,
results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock.
Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and
uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our
business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the
trading price of our common stock. STRATEGIC AND COMPETITIVE RISKS STRATEGIC AND
COMPETITIVE RISKS We face intense competition across all markets for our
products and services, which may lead to lower revenue or operating margins. We
face intense competition across all markets for our products and services, which
may lead to lower revenue or operating margins. Competition in the technology
sector Competition in the technology sector Our competitors range in size from
diversified global companies with significant research and development resources
to small, specialized firms whose narrower product lines may let them be more
effective in deploying technical, marketing, and financial resources. Barriers
to entry in many of our businesses are low and many of the areas in which we
compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive technologies, shifting user
needs, and frequent introductions of new products and services. Our ability to
remain competitive depends on our success in making innovative products,
devices, and services that appeal to businesses and consumers. Our competitors
range in size from diversified global companies with significant research and
development resources to small, specialized firms whose narrower product lines
may let them be more effective in deploying technical, marketing, and financial
resources. Barriers to entry in many of our businesses are low and many of the
areas in which we compete evolve rapidly with changing and disruptive
technologies, shifting user needs, and frequent introductions of new products
and services. Our ability to remain competitive depends on our success in making
innovative products, devices, and services that appeal to businesses and
consumers. Competition among platform-based ecosystems Competition among
platform-based ecosystems An important element of our business model has been to
create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants can build diverse
solutions. A well-established ecosystem creates beneficial network effects among
users, application developers, and the platform provider that can accelerate
growth. Establishing significant scale in the marketplace is necessary to
achieve and maintain attractive margins. We face significant competition from
firms that provide competing platforms. An important element of our business
model has been to create platform-based ecosystems on which many participants
can build diverse solutions. A well-established ecosystem creates beneficial
network effects among users, application developers, and the platform provider
that can accelerate growth. Establishing significant scale in the marketplace is
necessary to achieve and maintain attractive margins. We face significant
competition from firms that provide competing platforms. •A competing
vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm controls the software and
hardware elements of a product and related services, has succeeded with some
consumer products such as personal computers, tablets, phones, gaming consoles,
wearables, and other endpoint devices. Competitors pursuing this model also earn
revenue from services integrated with the hardware and software platform,
including applications and content sold through their integrated marketplaces.
They may also be able to claim security and performance benefits from their
vertically integrated offer. We also offer some vertically-integrated hardware
and software products and services. To the extent we shift a portion of our
business to a vertically integrated model we increase our cost of revenue and
reduce our operating margins. • A competing vertically-integrated model, in
which a single firm controls the software and hardware elements of a product and
related services, has succeeded with some consumer products such as personal
computers, tablets, phones, gaming consoles, wearables, and other endpoint
devices. Competitors pursuing this model also earn revenue from services
integrated with the hardware and software platform, including applications and
content sold through their integrated marketplaces. They may also be able to
claim security and performance benefits from their vertically integrated offer.
We also offer some vertically-integrated hardware and software products and
services. To the extent we shift a portion of our business to a vertically
integrated model we increase our cost of revenue and reduce our operating
margins. A competing vertically-integrated model, in which a single firm
controls the software and hardware elements of a product and related services,
has succeeded with some consumer products such as personal computers, tablets,
phones, gaming consoles, wearables, and other endpoint devices. Competitors
pursuing this model also earn revenue from services integrated with the hardware
and software platform, including applications and content sold through their
integrated marketplaces. They may also be able to claim security and performance
benefits from their vertically integrated offer. We also offer some vertically-
integrated hardware and software products and services. To the extent we shift a
portion of our business to a vertically integrated model we increase our cost of
revenue and reduce our operating margins. •We derive substantial revenue from
licenses of Windows operating systems on PCs. We face significant competition
from competing platforms developed for new devices and form factors such as
smartphones and tablet computers. These devices compete on multiple bases
including price and the perceived utility of the device and its platform. Users
are increasingly turning to these devices to perform functions that in the past
were performed by personal computers. Even if many users view these devices as
complementary to a personal computer, the prevalence of these devices may make
it more difficult to attract application developers to our PC operating system
platforms. Competing with operating systems licensed at low or no cost may
decrease our PC operating system margins. Popular products or services offered
on competing platforms could increase their competitive strength. In addition,
some of our devices compete with products made by our original equipment
manufacturer (“OEM”) partners, which may affect their commitment to our
platform. • We derive substantial revenue from licenses of Windows operating
systems on PCs. We face significant competition from competing platforms
developed for new devices and form factors such as smartphones and tablet
computers. These devices compete on multiple bases including price and the
perceived utility of the device and its platform. Users are increasingly turning
to these devices to perform functions that in the past were performed by
personal computers. Even if many users view these devices as complementary to a
personal computer, the prevalence of these devices may make it more difficult to
attract application developers to our PC operating system platforms. Competing
with operating systems licensed at low or no cost may decrease our PC operating
system margins. Popular products or services offered on competing platforms
could increase their competitive strength. In addition, some of our devices
compete with products made by our original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”)
partners, which may affect their commitment to our platform. We derive
substantial revenue from licenses of Windows operating systems on PCs. We face
significant competition from competing platforms developed for new devices and
form factors such as smartphones and tablet computers. These devices compete on
multiple bases including price and the perceived utility of the device and its
platform. Users are increasingly turning to these devices to perform functions
that in the past were performed by personal computers. Even if many users view
these devices as complementary to a personal computer, the prevalence of these
devices may make it more difficult to attract application developers to our PC
operating system platforms. Competing with operating systems licensed at low or
no cost may decrease our PC operating system margins. Popular products or
services offered on competing platforms could increase their competitive
strength. In addition, some of our devices compete with products made by our
original equipment manufacturer (“OEM”) partners, which may affect their
commitment to our platform. •Competing platforms have content and application
marketplaces with scale and significant installed bases. The variety and utility
of content and applications available on a platform are important to device
purchasing decisions. Users may incur costs to move data and buy new content and
applications when switching platforms. To compete, we must successfully enlist
developers to write applications for our platform and ensure that these
applications have high quality, security, customer appeal, and value. Efforts to
compete with competitors’ content and application marketplaces may increase our
cost of revenue and lower our operating margins. Competitors’ rules governing
their content and applications marketplaces may restrict our ability to
distribute products and services through them in accordance with our technical
and business model objectives. • Competing platforms have content and
application marketplaces with scale and significant installed bases. The variety
and utility of content and applications available on a platform are important to
device purchasing decisions. Users may incur costs to move data and buy new
content and applications when switching platforms. To compete, we must
successfully enlist developers to write applications for our platform and ensure
that these applications have high quality, security, customer appeal, and value.
Efforts to compete with competitors’ content and application marketplaces may
increase our cost of revenue and lower our operating margins. Competitors’ rules
governing their content and applications marketplaces may restrict our ability
to distribute products and services through them in accordance with our
technical and business model objectives. Competing platforms have content and
application marketplaces with scale and significant installed bases. The variety
and utility of content and applications available on a platform are important to
device purchasing decisions. Users may incur costs to move data and buy new
content and applications when switching platforms. To compete, we must
successfully enlist developers to write applications for our platform and ensure
that these applications have high quality, security, customer appeal, and value.
Efforts to compete with competitors’ content and application marketplaces may
increase our cost of revenue and lower our operating margins. Competitors’ rules
governing their content and applications marketplaces may restrict our ability
to distribute products and services through them in accordance with our
technical and business model objectives. 23 23 PART I PART I Item 1A Item 1A
Business model competition Business model competition Companies compete with us
based on a growing variety of business models. Companies compete with us based
on a growing variety of business models. •Even as we transition more of our
business to infrastructure-, platform-, and software-as-a-service business
model, the license-based proprietary software model generates a substantial
portion of our software revenue. We bear the costs of converting original ideas
into software products through investments in research and development,
offsetting these costs with the revenue received from licensing our products.
Many of our competitors also develop and sell software to businesses and
consumers under this model. • Even as we transition more of our business to
infrastructure-, platform-, and software-as-a-service business model, the
license-based proprietary software model generates a substantial portion of our
software revenue. We bear the costs of converting original ideas into software
products through investments in research and development, offsetting these costs
with the revenue received from licensing our products. Many of our competitors
also develop and sell software to businesses and consumers under this model.
Even as we transition more of our business to infrastructure-, platform-, and
software-as-a-service business model, the license-based proprietary software
model generates a substantial portion of our software revenue. We bear the costs
of converting original ideas into software products through investments in
research and development, offsetting these costs with the revenue received from
licensing our products. Many of our competitors also develop and sell software
to businesses and consumers under this model. •We are investing in artificial
intelligence (“AI”) across the entire company and infusing generative AI
capabilities into our consumer and commercial offerings. We expect AI technology
and services to be a highly competitive and rapidly evolving market. We will
bear significant development and operational costs to build and support the AI
capabilities, products, and services necessary to meet the needs of our
customers. To compete effectively we must also be responsive to technological
change, potential regulatory developments, and public scrutiny. • We are
investing in artificial intelligence (“AI”) across the entire company and
infusing generative AI capabilities into our consumer and commercial offerings.
We expect AI technology and services to be a highly competitive and rapidly
evolving market. We will bear significant development and operational costs to
build and support the AI capabilities, products, and services necessary to meet
the needs of our customers. To compete effectively we must also be responsive to
technological change, potential regulatory developments, and public scrutiny. We
are investing in artificial intelligence (“AI”) across the entire company and
infusing generative AI capabilities into our consumer and commercial offerings.
We expect AI technology and services to be a highly competitive and rapidly
evolving market. We will bear significant development and operational costs to
build and support the AI capabilities, products, and services necessary to meet
the needs of our customers. To compete effectively we must also be responsive to
technological change, potential regulatory developments, and public scrutiny.
•Other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services, and
content, and make money by selling third-party advertising. Advertising revenue
funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at
no or little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products. •
Other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services, and
content, and make money by selling third-party advertising. Advertising revenue
funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at
no or little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products.
Other competitors develop and offer free applications, online services, and
content, and make money by selling third-party advertising. Advertising revenue
funds development of products and services these competitors provide to users at
no or little cost, competing directly with our revenue-generating products.
•Some companies compete with us by modifying and then distributing open source
software at little or no cost to end users, using open source AI models, and
earning revenue on advertising or integrated products and services. These firms
do not bear the full costs of research and development for the open source
products. Some open source products mimic the features and functionality of our
products. • Some companies compete with us by modifying and then distributing
open source software at little or no cost to end users, using open source AI
models, and earning revenue on advertising or integrated products and services.
These firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for the open
source products. Some open source products mimic the features and functionality
of our products. Some companies compete with us by modifying and then
distributing open source software at little or no cost to end users, using open
source AI models, and earning revenue on advertising or integrated products and
services. These firms do not bear the full costs of research and development for
the open source products. Some open source products mimic the features and
functionality of our products. The competitive pressures described above may
cause decreased sales volumes, price reductions, and/or increased operating
costs, such as for research and development, marketing, and sales incentives.
This may lead to lower revenue, gross margins, and operating income. The
competitive pressures described above may cause decreased sales volumes, price
reductions, and/or increased operating costs, such as for research and
development, marketing, and sales incentives. This may lead to lower revenue,
gross margins, and operating income. Our increasing focus on cloud-based
services presents execution and competitive risks. A growing part of our
business involves cloud-based services available across the spectrum of
computing devices. Our strategic vision is to compete and grow by building best-
in-class platforms and productivity services that utilize ubiquitous computing
and ambient intelligence to drive insights and productivity gains. At the same
time, our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services
for consumers and business customers. Pricing and delivery models are evolving.
Devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud and
sometimes the user’s choice of which cloud-based services to use. Certain
industries and customers have specific requirements for cloud services and may
present enhanced risks. We are devoting significant resources to develop and
deploy our cloud-based strategies. The Windows ecosystem must continue to evolve
with this changing environment. We embrace cultural and organizational changes
to drive accountability and eliminate obstacles to innovation. Our intelligent
cloud and intelligent edge offerings are connected to the growth of the Internet
of Things (“IoT”), a network of distributed and interconnected devices employing
sensors, data, and computing capabilities, including AI. Our success in driving
ubiquitous computing and ambient intelligence will depend on the level of
adoption of our offerings such as Azure, Azure AI, and Azure IoT Edge. We may
not establish market share sufficient to achieve scale necessary to meet our
business objectives. Our increasing focus on cloud-based services presents
execution and competitive risks. A growing part of our business involves cloud-
based services available across the spectrum of computing devices. Our strategic
vision is to compete and grow by building best-in-class platforms and
productivity services that utilize ubiquitous computing and ambient intelligence
to drive insights and productivity gains. At the same time, our competitors are
rapidly developing and deploying cloud-based services for consumers and business
customers. Pricing and delivery models are evolving. Devices and form factors
influence how users access services in the cloud and sometimes the user’s choice
of which cloud-based services to use. Certain industries and customers have
specific requirements for cloud services and may present enhanced risks. We are
devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our cloud-based strategies.
The Windows ecosystem must continue to evolve with this changing environment. We
embrace cultural and organizational changes to drive accountability and
eliminate obstacles to innovation. Our intelligent cloud and intelligent edge
offerings are connected to the growth of the Internet of Things (“IoT”), a
network of distributed and interconnected devices employing sensors, data, and
computing capabilities, including AI. Our success in driving ubiquitous
computing and ambient intelligence will depend on the level of adoption of our
offerings such as Azure, Azure AI, and Azure IoT Edge. We may not establish
market share sufficient to achieve scale necessary to meet our business
objectives. Besides software development costs, we are incurring costs to build
and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services. These costs
will reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. Whether we
succeed in cloud-based services depends on our execution in several areas,
including: Besides software development costs, we are incurring costs to build
and maintain infrastructure to support cloud computing services. These costs
will reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. Whether we
succeed in cloud-based services depends on our execution in several areas,
including: •Continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences
that generate increasing traffic and market share. • Continuing to bring to
market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and
market share. Continuing to bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences
that generate increasing traffic and market share. •Maintaining the utility,
compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based services on the growing array
of computing devices, including PCs, smartphones, tablets, gaming consoles, and
other devices, as well as sensors and other IoT endpoints. • Maintaining the
utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based services on the
growing array of computing devices, including PCs, smartphones, tablets, gaming
consoles, and other devices, as well as sensors and other IoT endpoints.
Maintaining the utility, compatibility, and performance of our cloud-based
services on the growing array of computing devices, including PCs, smartphones,
tablets, gaming consoles, and other devices, as well as sensors and other IoT
endpoints. •Continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud platforms to
third-party developers. • Continuing to enhance the attractiveness of our cloud
platforms to third-party developers. Continuing to enhance the attractiveness of
our cloud platforms to third-party developers. •Ensuring our cloud-based
services meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the
security of their data as well as help them meet their own compliance needs. •
Ensuring our cloud-based services meet the reliability expectations of our
customers and maintain the security of their data as well as help them meet
their own compliance needs. Ensuring our cloud-based services meet the
reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their
data as well as help them meet their own compliance needs. •Making our suite of
cloud-based services platform-agnostic, available on a wide range of devices and
ecosystems, including those of our competitors. • Making our suite of cloud-
based services platform-agnostic, available on a wide range of devices and
ecosystems, including those of our competitors. Making our suite of cloud-based
services platform-agnostic, available on a wide range of devices and ecosystems,
including those of our competitors. 24 24 PART I PART I Item 1A Item 1A It is
uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the revenue
required to succeed. If we are not effective in executing organizational and
technical changes to increase efficiency and accelerate innovation, or if we
fail to generate sufficient usage of our new products and services, we may not
grow revenue in line with the infrastructure and development investments
described above. This may negatively impact gross margins and operating income.
It is uncertain whether our strategies will attract the users or generate the
revenue required to succeed. If we are not effective in executing organizational
and technical changes to increase efficiency and accelerate innovation, or if we
fail to generate sufficient usage of our new products and services, we may not
grow revenue in line with the infrastructure and development investments
described above. This may negatively impact gross margins and operating income.
Some users may engage in fraudulent or abusive activities through our cloud-
based services. These include unauthorized use of accounts through stolen
credentials, use of stolen credit cards or other payment vehicles, failure to
pay for services accessed, or other activities that violate our terms of service
such as cryptocurrency mining or launching cyberattacks. If our efforts to
detect such violations or our actions to control these types of fraud and abuse
are not effective, we may experience adverse impacts to our revenue or incur
reputational damage. Some users may engage in fraudulent or abusive activities
through our cloud-based services. These include unauthorized use of accounts
through stolen credentials, use of stolen credit cards or other payment
vehicles, failure to pay for services accessed, or other activities that violate
our terms of service such as cryptocurrency mining or launching cyberattacks. If
our efforts to detect such violations or our actions to control these types of
fraud and abuse are not effective, we may experience adverse impacts to our
revenue or incur reputational damage. RISKS RELATING TO THE EVOLUTION OF OUR
BUSINESS RISKS RELATING TO THE EVOLUTION OF OUR BUSINESS We make significant
investments in products and services that may not achieve expected returns. We
will continue to make significant investments in research, development, and
marketing for existing products, services, and technologies, including the
Windows operating system, Microsoft 365, Bing, SQL Server, Windows Server,
Azure, Office 365, Xbox, LinkedIn, and other products and services. In addition,
we are focused on developing new AI platform services and incorporating AI into
existing products and services. We also invest in the development and
acquisition of a variety of hardware for productivity, communication, and
entertainment, including PCs, tablets, gaming devices, and HoloLens. Investments
in new technology are speculative. Commercial success depends on many factors,
including innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and
marketing. If customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing
significant new functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of
new software and hardware products or upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue.
We may not achieve significant revenue from new product, service, and
distribution channel investments for several years, if at all. New products and
services may not be profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating
margins for some new products and businesses will not be as high as the margins
we have experienced historically. We may not get engagement in certain features,
like Microsoft Edge, Bing, and Bing Chat, that drive post-sale monetization
opportunities. Our data handling practices across our products and services will
continue to be under scrutiny. Perceptions of mismanagement, driven by
regulatory activity or negative public reaction to our practices or product
experiences, could negatively impact product and feature adoption, product
design, and product quality. We make significant investments in products and
services that may not achieve expected returns. We will continue to make
significant investments in research, development, and marketing for existing
products, services, and technologies, including the Windows operating system,
Microsoft 365, Bing, SQL Server, Windows Server, Azure, Office 365, Xbox,
LinkedIn, and other products and services. In addition, we are focused on
developing new AI platform services and incorporating AI into existing products
and services. We also invest in the development and acquisition of a variety of
hardware for productivity, communication, and entertainment, including PCs,
tablets, gaming devices, and HoloLens. Investments in new technology are
speculative. Commercial success depends on many factors, including
innovativeness, developer support, and effective distribution and marketing. If
customers do not perceive our latest offerings as providing significant new
functionality or other value, they may reduce their purchases of new software
and hardware products or upgrades, unfavorably affecting revenue. We may not
achieve significant revenue from new product, service, and distribution channel
investments for several years, if at all. New products and services may not be
profitable, and even if they are profitable, operating margins for some new
products and businesses will not be as high as the margins we have experienced
historically. We may not get engagement in certain features, like Microsoft
Edge, Bing, and Bing Chat, that drive post-sale monetization opportunities. Our
data handling practices across our products and services will continue to be
under scrutiny. Perceptions of mismanagement, driven by regulatory activity or
negative public reaction to our practices or product experiences, could
negatively impact product and feature adoption, product design, and product
quality. Developing new technologies is complex. It can require long development
and testing periods. Significant delays in new releases or significant problems
in creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue.
Developing new technologies is complex. It can require long development and
testing periods. Significant delays in new releases or significant problems in
creating new products or services could adversely affect our revenue.
Acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic alliances may have an adverse effect
on our business. We expect to continue making acquisitions and entering into
joint ventures and strategic alliances as part of our long-term business
strategy. For example, in March 2021 we completed our acquisition of ZeniMax
Media Inc. for $8. 1 billion, and in March 2022 we completed our acquisition of
Nuance Communications, Inc. for $18. 8 billion. In January 2022 we announced a
definitive agreement to acquire Activision Blizzard, Inc. for $68. 7 billion. In
January 2023 we announced the third phase of our OpenAI strategic partnership.
Acquisitions and other transactions and arrangements involve significant
challenges and risks, including that they do not advance our business strategy,
that we get an unsatisfactory return on our investment, that they raise new
compliance-related obligations and challenges, that we have difficulty
integrating and retaining new employees, business systems, and technology, that
they distract management from our other businesses, or that announced
transactions may not be completed. If an arrangement fails to adequately
anticipate changing circumstances and interests of a party, it may result in
early termination or renegotiation of the arrangement. The success of these
transactions and arrangements will depend in part on our ability to leverage
them to enhance our existing products and services or develop compelling new
ones, as well as acquired companies’ ability to meet our policies and processes
in areas such as data governance, privacy, and cybersecurity. It may take longer
than expected to realize the full benefits from these transactions and
arrangements such as increased revenue or enhanced efficiencies, or the benefits
may ultimately be smaller than we expected. These events could adversely affect
our consolidated financial statements. Acquisitions, joint ventures, and
strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on our business. We expect to
continue making acquisitions and entering into joint ventures and strategic
alliances as part of our long-term business strategy. For example, in March 2021
we completed our acquisition of ZeniMax Media Inc. for $8. 1 billion, and in
March 2022 we completed our acquisition of Nuance Communications, Inc. for $18.
8 billion. In January 2022 we announced a definitive agreement to acquire
Activision Blizzard, Inc. for $68. 7 billion. In January 2023 we announced the
third phase of our OpenAI strategic partnership. Acquisitions and other
transactions and arrangements involve significant challenges and risks,
including that they do not advance our business strategy, that we get an
unsatisfactory return on our investment, that they raise new compliance-related
obligations and challenges, that we have difficulty integrating and retaining
new employees, business systems, and technology, that they distract management
from our other businesses, or that announced transactions may not be completed.
If an arrangement fails to adequately anticipate changing circumstances and
interests of a party, it may result in early termination or renegotiation of the
arrangement. The success of these transactions and arrangements will depend in
part on our ability to leverage them to enhance our existing products and
services or develop compelling new ones, as well as acquired companies’ ability
to meet our policies and processes in areas such as data governance, privacy,
and cybersecurity. It may take longer than expected to realize the full benefits
from these transactions and arrangements such as increased revenue or enhanced
efficiencies, or the benefits may ultimately be smaller than we expected. These
events could adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. 25 25 PART
I PART I Item 1A Item 1A If our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become
impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We
acquire other companies and intangible assets and may not realize all the
economic benefit from those acquisitions, which could cause an impairment of
goodwill or intangibles. We review our amortizable intangible assets for
impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value
may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually.
Factors that may be a change in circumstances, indicating that the carrying
value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable,
include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, reduced future
cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in industry segments in which we
participate. We have in the past recorded, and may in the future be required to
record, a significant charge in our consolidated financial statements during the
period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets
is determined, negatively affecting our results of operations. If our goodwill
or amortizable intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a
significant charge to earnings. We acquire other companies and intangible assets
and may not realize all the economic benefit from those acquisitions, which
could cause an impairment of goodwill or intangibles. We review our amortizable
intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances
indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. We test goodwill for
impairment at least annually. Factors that may be a change in circumstances,
indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible
assets may not be recoverable, include a decline in our stock price and market
capitalization, reduced future cash flow estimates, and slower growth rates in
industry segments in which we participate. We have in the past recorded, and may
in the future be required to record, a significant charge in our consolidated
financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill
or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively affecting our results
of operations. CYBERSECURITY, DATA PRIVACY, AND PLATFORM ABUSE RISKS
CYBERSECURITY, DATA PRIVACY, AND PLATFORM ABUSE RISKS Cyberattacks and security
vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs, liability
claims, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. Cyberattacks and
security vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, increased costs,
liability claims, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. Security of
our information technology Security of our information technology Threats to IT
security can take a variety of forms. Individual and groups of hackers and
sophisticated organizations, including state-sponsored organizations or nation-
states, continuously undertake attacks that pose threats to our customers and
our IT. These actors may use a wide variety of methods, which may include
developing and deploying malicious software or exploiting vulnerabilities or
intentionally designed processes in hardware, software, or other infrastructure
in order to attack our products and services or gain access to our networks and
datacenters, using social engineering techniques to induce our employees, users,
partners, or customers to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or
take other actions to gain access to our data or our users’ or customers’ data,
or acting in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service or
other coordinated attacks. Nation-state and state-sponsored actors can deploy
significant resources to plan and carry out attacks. Nation-state attacks
against us, our customers, or our partners may intensify during periods of
intense diplomatic or armed conflict, such as the ongoing conflict in Ukraine.
Inadequate account security or organizational security practices may also result
in unauthorized access to confidential data. For example, system administrators
may fail to timely remove employee account access when no longer appropriate.
Employees or third parties may intentionally compromise our or our users’
security or systems or reveal confidential information. Malicious actors may
employ the IT supply chain to introduce malware through software updates or
compromised supplier accounts or hardware. Threats to IT security can take a
variety of forms. Individual and groups of hackers and sophisticated
organizations, including state-sponsored organizations or nation-states,
continuously undertake attacks that pose threats to our customers and our IT.
These actors may use a wide variety of methods, which may include developing and
deploying malicious software or exploiting vulnerabilities or intentionally
designed processes in hardware, software, or other infrastructure in order to
attack our products and services or gain access to our networks and datacenters,
using social engineering techniques to induce our employees, users, partners, or
customers to disclose passwords or other sensitive information or take other
actions to gain access to our data or our users’ or customers’ data, or acting
in a coordinated manner to launch distributed denial of service or other
coordinated attacks. Nation-state and state-sponsored actors can deploy
significant resources to plan and carry out attacks. Nation-state attacks
against us, our customers, or our partners may intensify during periods of
intense diplomatic or armed conflict, such as the ongoing conflict in Ukraine.
Inadequate account security or organizational security practices may also result
in unauthorized access to confidential data. For example, system administrators
may fail to timely remove employee account access when no longer appropriate.
Employees or third parties may intentionally compromise our or our users’
security or systems or reveal confidential information. Malicious actors may
employ the IT supply chain to introduce malware through software updates or
compromised supplier accounts or hardware. Cyberthreats are constantly evolving
and becoming increasingly sophisticated and complex, increasing the difficulty
of detecting and successfully defending against them. We may have no current
capability to detect certain vulnerabilities or new attack methods, which may
allow them to persist in the environment over long periods of time. Cyberthreats
can have cascading impacts that unfold with increasing speed across our internal
networks and systems and those of our partners and customers. Breaches of our
facilities, network, or data security could disrupt the security of our systems
and business applications, impair our ability to provide services to our
customers and protect the privacy of their data, result in product development
delays, compromise confidential or technical business information harming our
reputation or competitive position, result in theft or misuse of our
intellectual property or other assets, subject us to ransomware attacks, require
us to allocate more resources to improve technologies or remediate the impacts
of attacks, or otherwise adversely affect our business. We are also subject to
supply chain cyberattacks where malware can be introduced to a software
provider’s customers, including us, through software updates. Cyberthreats are
constantly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated and complex,
increasing the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them.
We may have no current capability to detect certain vulnerabilities or new
attack methods, which may allow them to persist in the environment over long
periods of time. Cyberthreats can have cascading impacts that unfold with
increasing speed across our internal networks and systems and those of our
partners and customers. Breaches of our facilities, network, or data security
could disrupt the security of our systems and business applications, impair our
ability to provide services to our customers and protect the privacy of their
data, result in product development delays, compromise confidential or technical
business information harming our reputation or competitive position, result in
theft or misuse of our intellectual property or other assets, subject us to
ransomware attacks, require us to allocate more resources to improve
technologies or remediate the impacts of attacks, or otherwise adversely affect
our business. We are also subject to supply chain cyberattacks where malware can
be introduced to a software provider’s customers, including us, through software
updates. In addition, our internal IT environment continues to evolve. Often, we
are early adopters of new devices and technologies. We embrace new ways of
sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using
methods such as social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies.
Increasing use of generative AI models in our internal systems may create new
attack methods for adversaries. Our business policies and internal security
controls may not keep pace with these changes as new threats emerge, or emerging
cybersecurity regulations in jurisdictions worldwide. In addition, our internal
IT environment continues to evolve. Often, we are early adopters of new devices
and technologies. We embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating
internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social
networking and other consumer-oriented technologies. Increasing use of
generative AI models in our internal systems may create new attack methods for
adversaries. Our business policies and internal security controls may not keep
pace with these changes as new threats emerge, or emerging cybersecurity
regulations in jurisdictions worldwide. 26 26 PART I PART I Item 1A Item 1A
Security of our products, services, devices, and customers’ data Security of our
products, services, devices, and customers’ data The security of our products
and services is important in our customers’ decisions to purchase or use our
products or services across cloud and on-premises environments. Security threats
are a significant challenge to companies like us whose business is providing
technology products and services to others. Threats to our own IT infrastructure
can also affect our customers. Customers using our cloud-based services rely on
the security of our infrastructure, including hardware and other elements
provided by third parties, to ensure the reliability of our services and the
protection of their data. Adversaries tend to focus their efforts on the most
popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many of ours, and
we expect that to continue. In addition, adversaries can attack our customers’
on-premises or cloud environments, sometimes exploiting previously unknown
(“zero day”) vulnerabilities, such as occurred in early calendar year 2021 with
several of our Exchange Server on-premises products. Vulnerabilities in these or
any product can persist even after we have issued security patches if customers
have not installed the most recent updates, or if the attackers exploited the
vulnerabilities before patching to install additional malware to further
compromise customers’ systems. Adversaries will continue to attack customers
using our cloud services as customers embrace digital transformation.
Adversaries that acquire user account information can use that information to
compromise our users’ accounts, including where accounts share the same
attributes such as passwords. Inadequate account security practices may also
result in unauthorized access, and user activity may result in ransomware or
other malicious software impacting a customer’s use of our products or services.
We are increasingly incorporating open source software into our products. There
may be vulnerabilities in open source software that may make our products
susceptible to cyberattacks. Additionally, we are actively adding new generative
AI features to our services. Because generative AI is a new field, understanding
of security risks and protection methods continues to develop; features that
rely on generative AI may be susceptible to unanticipated security threats from
sophisticated adversaries. The security of our products and services is
important in our customers’ decisions to purchase or use our products or
services across cloud and on-premises environments. Security threats are a
significant challenge to companies like us whose business is providing
technology products and services to others. Threats to our own IT infrastructure
can also affect our customers. Customers using our cloud-based services rely on
the security of our infrastructure, including hardware and other elements
provided by third parties, to ensure the reliability of our services and the
protection of their data. Adversaries tend to focus their efforts on the most
popular operating systems, programs, and services, including many of ours, and
we expect that to continue. In addition, adversaries can attack our customers’
on-premises or cloud environments, sometimes exploiting previously unknown
(“zero day”) vulnerabilities, such as occurred in early calendar year 2021 with
several of our Exchange Server on-premises products. Vulnerabilities in these or
any product can persist even after we have issued security patches if customers
have not installed the most recent updates, or if the attackers exploited the
vulnerabilities before patching to install additional malware to further
compromise customers’ systems. Adversaries will continue to attack customers
using our cloud services as customers embrace digital transformation.
Adversaries that acquire user account information can use that information to
compromise our users’ accounts, including where accounts share the same
attributes such as passwords. Inadequate account security practices may also
result in unauthorized access, and user activity may result in ransomware or
other malicious software impacting a customer’s use of our products or services.
We are increasingly incorporating open source software into our products. There
may be vulnerabilities in open source software that may make our products
susceptible to cyberattacks. Additionally, we are actively adding new generative
AI features to our services. Because generative AI is a new field, understanding
of security risks and protection methods continues to develop; features that
rely on generative AI may be susceptible to unanticipated security threats from
sophisticated adversaries. Our customers operate complex IT systems with third-
party hardware and software from multiple vendors that may include systems
acquired over many years. They expect our products and services to support all
these systems and products, including those that no longer incorporate the
strongest current security advances or standards. As a result, we may not be
able to discontinue support in our services for a product, service, standard, or
feature solely because a more secure alternative is available. Failure to
utilize the most current security advances and standards can increase our
customers’ vulnerability to attack. Further, customers of widely varied size and
technical sophistication use our technology, and consequently may still have
limited capabilities and resources to help them adopt and implement state of the
art cybersecurity practices and technologies. In addition, we must account for
this wide variation of technical sophistication when defining default settings
for our products and services, including security default settings, as these
settings may limit or otherwise impact other aspects of IT operations and some
customers may have limited capability to review and reset these defaults. Our
customers operate complex IT systems with third-party hardware and software from
multiple vendors that may include systems acquired over many years. They expect
our products and services to support all these systems and products, including
those that no longer incorporate the strongest current security advances or
standards. As a result, we may not be able to discontinue support in our
services for a product, service, standard, or feature solely because a more
secure alternative is available. Failure to utilize the most current security
advances and standards can increase our customers’ vulnerability to attack.
Further, customers of widely varied size and technical sophistication use our
technology, and consequently may still have limited capabilities and resources
to help them adopt and implement state of the art cybersecurity practices and
technologies. In addition, we must account for this wide variation of technical
sophistication when defining default settings for our products and services,
including security default settings, as these settings may limit or otherwise
impact other aspects of IT operations and some customers may have limited
capability to review and reset these defaults. Cyberattacks may adversely impact
our customers even if our production services are not directly compromised. We
are committed to notifying our customers whose systems have been impacted as we
become aware and have actionable information for customers to help protect
themselves. We are also committed to providing guidance and support on
detection, tracking, and remediation. We may not be able to detect the existence
or extent of these attacks for all of our customers or have information on how
to detect or track an attack, especially where an attack involves on-premises
software such as Exchange Server where we may have no or limited visibility into
our customers’ computing environments. Cyberattacks may adversely impact our
customers even if our production services are not directly compromised. We are
committed to notifying our customers whose systems have been impacted as we
become aware and have actionable information for customers to help protect
themselves. We are also committed to providing guidance and support on
detection, tracking, and remediation. We may not be able to detect the existence
or extent of these attacks for all of our customers or have information on how
to detect or track an attack, especially where an attack involves on-premises
software such as Exchange Server where we may have no or limited visibility into
our customers’ computing environments. Development and deployment of defensive
measures Development and deployment of defensive measures To defend against
security threats to our internal IT systems, our cloud-based services, and our
customers’ systems, we must continuously engineer more secure products and
services, enhance security, threat detection, and reliability features, improve
the deployment of software updates to address security vulnerabilities in our
own products as well as those provided by others, develop mitigation
technologies that help to secure customers from attacks even when software
updates are not deployed, maintain the digital security infrastructure that
protects the integrity of our network, products, and services, and provide
security tools such as firewalls, anti-virus software, and advanced security and
information about the need to deploy security measures and the impact of doing
so. Customers in certain industries such as financial services, health care, and
government may have enhanced or specialized requirements to which we must
engineer our products and services. To defend against security threats to our
internal IT systems, our cloud-based services, and our customers’ systems, we
must continuously engineer more secure products and services, enhance security,
threat detection, and reliability features, improve the deployment of software
updates to address security vulnerabilities in our own products as well as those
provided by others, develop mitigation technologies that help to secure
customers from attacks even when software updates are not deployed, maintain the
digital security infrastructure that protects the integrity of our network,
products, and services, and provide security tools such as firewalls, anti-virus
software, and advanced security and information about the need to deploy
security measures and the impact of doing so. Customers in certain industries
such as financial services, health care, and government may have enhanced or
specialized requirements to which we must engineer our products and services. 27
27 PART I PART I Item 1A Item 1A The cost of measures to protect products and
customer-facing services could reduce our operating margins. If we fail to do
these things well, actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products
and services, data corruption issues, or reduced performance could harm our
reputation and lead customers to reduce or delay future purchases of products or
subscriptions to services, or to use competing products or services. Customers
may also spend more on protecting their existing computer systems from attack,
which could delay adoption of additional products or services. Customers, and
third parties granted access to their systems, may fail to update their systems,
continue to run software or operating systems we no longer support, or may fail
timely to install or enable security patches, or may otherwise fail to adopt
adequate security practices. Any of these could adversely affect our reputation
and revenue. Actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us.
Our license agreements typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our
exposure to liability, but there is no assurance these provisions will withstand
legal challenges. At times, to achieve commercial objectives, we may enter into
agreements with larger liability exposure to customers. The cost of measures to
protect products and customer-facing services could reduce our operating
margins. If we fail to do these things well, actual or perceived security
vulnerabilities in our products and services, data corruption issues, or reduced
performance could harm our reputation and lead customers to reduce or delay
future purchases of products or subscriptions to services, or to use competing
products or services. Customers may also spend more on protecting their existing
computer systems from attack, which could delay adoption of additional products
or services. Customers, and third parties granted access to their systems, may
fail to update their systems, continue to run software or operating systems we
no longer support, or may fail timely to install or enable security patches, or
may otherwise fail to adopt adequate security practices. Any of these could
adversely affect our reputation and revenue. Actual or perceived vulnerabilities
may lead to claims against us. Our license agreements typically contain
provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, but there is no
assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenges. At times, to achieve
commercial objectives, we may enter into agreements with larger liability
exposure to customers. Our products operate in conjunction with and are
dependent on products and components across a broad ecosystem of third parties.
If there is a security vulnerability in one of these components, and if there is
a security exploit targeting it, we could face increased costs, liability
claims, reduced revenue, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. Our
products operate in conjunction with and are dependent on products and
components across a broad ecosystem of third parties. If there is a security
vulnerability in one of these components, and if there is a security exploit
targeting it, we could face increased costs, liability claims, reduced revenue,
or harm to our reputation or competitive position. Disclosure and misuse of
personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. As we continue
to grow the number, breadth, and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store
and process increasingly large amounts of personal data of our customers and
users. The continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence
of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. Despite
our efforts to improve the security controls across our business groups and
geographies, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our
training of employees and third parties on data security, and other practices we
follow may not prevent the improper disclosure or misuse of customer or user
data we or our vendors store and manage. In addition, third parties who have
limited access to our customer or user data may use this data in unauthorized
ways. Improper disclosure or misuse could harm our reputation, lead to legal
exposure to customers or users, or subject us to liability under laws that
protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Our
software products and services also enable our customers and users to store and
process personal data on-premises or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment
we host. Government authorities can sometimes require us to produce customer or
user data in response to valid legal orders. In the U. S. and elsewhere, we
advocate for transparency concerning these requests and appropriate limitations
on government authority to compel disclosure. Despite our efforts to protect
customer and user data, perceptions that the collection, use, and retention of
personal information is not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales of our
products or services and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions by
consumers, businesses, and government entities. Additional security measures we
may take to address customer or user concerns, or constraints on our flexibility
to determine where and how to operate datacenters in response to customer or
user expectations or governmental rules or actions, may cause higher operating
expenses or hinder growth of our products and services. Disclosure and misuse of
personal data could result in liability and harm our reputation. As we continue
to grow the number, breadth, and scale of our cloud-based offerings, we store
and process increasingly large amounts of personal data of our customers and
users. The continued occurrence of high-profile data breaches provides evidence
of an external environment increasingly hostile to information security. Despite
our efforts to improve the security controls across our business groups and
geographies, it is possible our security controls over personal data, our
training of employees and third parties on data security, and other practices we
follow may not prevent the improper disclosure or misuse of customer or user
data we or our vendors store and manage. In addition, third parties who have
limited access to our customer or user data may use this data in unauthorized
ways. Improper disclosure or misuse could harm our reputation, lead to legal
exposure to customers or users, or subject us to liability under laws that
protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. Our
software products and services also enable our customers and users to store and
process personal data on-premises or, increasingly, in a cloud-based environment
we host. Government authorities can sometimes require us to produce customer or
user data in response to valid legal orders. In the U. S. and elsewhere, we
advocate for transparency concerning these requests and appropriate limitations
on government authority to compel disclosure. Despite our efforts to protect
customer and user data, perceptions that the collection, use, and retention of
personal information is not satisfactorily protected could inhibit sales of our
products or services and could limit adoption of our cloud-based solutions by
consumers, businesses, and government entities. Additional security measures we
may take to address customer or user concerns, or constraints on our flexibility
to determine where and how to operate datacenters in response to customer or
user expectations or governmental rules or actions, may cause higher operating
expenses or hinder growth of our products and services. We may not be able to
protect information in our products and services from use by others. LinkedIn
and other Microsoft products and services contain valuable information and
content protected by contractual restrictions or technical measures. In certain
cases, we have made commitments to our members and users to limit access to or
use of this information. Changes in the law or interpretations of the law may
weaken our ability to prevent third parties from scraping or gathering
information or content through use of bots or other measures and using it for
their own benefit, thus diminishing the value of our products and services. We
may not be able to protect information in our products and services from use by
others. LinkedIn and other Microsoft products and services contain valuable
information and content protected by contractual restrictions or technical
measures. In certain cases, we have made commitments to our members and users to
limit access to or use of this information. Changes in the law or
interpretations of the law may weaken our ability to prevent third parties from
scraping or gathering information or content through use of bots or other
measures and using it for their own benefit, thus diminishing the value of our
products and services. Abuse of our platforms may harm our reputation or user
engagement. Abuse of our platforms may harm our reputation or user engagement.
Advertising, professional, marketplace, and gaming platform abuses Advertising,
professional, marketplace, and gaming platform abuses For platform products and
services that provide content or host ads that come from or can be influenced by
third parties, including GitHub, LinkedIn, Microsoft Advertising, Microsoft
News, Microsoft Store, Bing, and Xbox, our reputation or user engagement may be
negatively affected by activity that is hostile or inappropriate. This activity
may come from users impersonating other people or organizations including
through the use of AI technologies, dissemination of information that may be
viewed as misleading or intended to manipulate the opinions of our users, or the
use of our products or services that violates our terms of service or otherwise
for objectionable or illegal ends. Preventing or responding to these actions may
require us to make substantial investments in people and technology and these
investments may not be successful, adversely affecting our business and
consolidated financial statements. For platform products and services that
provide content or host ads that come from or can be influenced by third
parties, including GitHub, LinkedIn, Microsoft Advertising, Microsoft News,
Microsoft Store, Bing, and Xbox, our reputation or user engagement may be
negatively affected by activity that is hostile or inappropriate. This activity
may come from users impersonating other people or organizations including
through the use of AI technologies, dissemination of information that may be
viewed as misleading or intended to manipulate the opinions of our users, or the
use of our products or services that violates our terms of service or otherwise
for objectionable or illegal ends. Preventing or responding to these actions may
require us to make substantial investments in people and technology and these
investments may not be successful, adversely affecting our business and
consolidated financial statements. 28 28 PART I PART I Item 1A Item 1A Other
digital safety abuses Other digital safety abuses Our hosted consumer services
as well as our enterprise services may be used to generate or disseminate
harmful or illegal content in violation of our terms or applicable law. We may
not proactively discover such content due to scale, the limitations of existing
technologies, and conflicting legal frameworks. When discovered by users and
others, such content may negatively affect our reputation, our brands, and user
engagement. Regulations and other initiatives to make platforms responsible for
preventing or eliminating harmful content online have been enacted, and we
expect this to continue. We may be subject to enhanced regulatory oversight,
civil or criminal liability, or reputational damage if we fail to comply with
content moderation regulations, adversely affecting our business and
consolidated financial statements. Our hosted consumer services as well as our
enterprise services may be used to generate or disseminate harmful or illegal
content in violation of our terms or applicable law. We may not proactively
discover such content due to scale, the limitations of existing technologies,
and conflicting legal frameworks. When discovered by users and others, such
content may negatively affect our reputation, our brands, and user engagement.
Regulations and other initiatives to make platforms responsible for preventing
or eliminating harmful content online have been enacted, and we expect this to
continue. We may be subject to enhanced regulatory oversight, civil or criminal
liability, or reputational damage if we fail to comply with content moderation
regulations, adversely affecting our business and consolidated financial
statements. The development of the IoT presents security, privacy, and execution
risks. To support the growth of the intelligent cloud and the intelligent edge,
we are developing products, services, and technologies to power the IoT. The
IoT’s great potential also carries substantial risks. IoT products and services
may contain defects in design, manufacture, or operation that make them insecure
or ineffective for their intended purposes. An IoT solution has multiple layers
of hardware, sensors, processors, software, and firmware, several of which we
may not develop or control. Each layer, including the weakest layer, can impact
the security of the whole system. Many IoT devices have limited interfaces and
ability to be updated or patched. IoT solutions may collect large amounts of
data, and our handling of IoT data may not satisfy customers or regulatory
requirements. IoT scenarios may increasingly affect personal health and safety.
If IoT solutions that include our technologies do not work as intended, violate
the law, or harm individuals or businesses, we may be subject to legal claims or
enforcement actions. These risks, if realized, may increase our costs, damage
our reputation or brands, or negatively impact our revenues or margins. The
development of the IoT presents security, privacy, and execution risks. To
support the growth of the intelligent cloud and the intelligent edge, we are
developing products, services, and technologies to power the IoT. The IoT’s
great potential also carries substantial risks. IoT products and services may
contain defects in design, manufacture, or operation that make them insecure or
ineffective for their intended purposes. An IoT solution has multiple layers of
hardware, sensors, processors, software, and firmware, several of which we may
not develop or control. Each layer, including the weakest layer, can impact the
security of the whole system. Many IoT devices have limited interfaces and
ability to be updated or patched. IoT solutions may collect large amounts of
data, and our handling of IoT data may not satisfy customers or regulatory
requirements. IoT scenarios may increasingly affect personal health and safety.
If IoT solutions that include our technologies do not work as intended, violate
the law, or harm individuals or businesses, we may be subject to legal claims or
enforcement actions. These risks, if realized, may increase our costs, damage
our reputation or brands, or negatively impact our revenues or margins. Issues
in the development and use of AI may result in reputational or competitive harm
or liability. We are building AI into many of our offerings, including our
productivity services, and we are also making AI available for our customers to
use in solutions that they build. This AI may be developed by Microsoft or
others, including our strategic partner, OpenAI. We expect these elements of our
business to grow. We envision a future in which AI operating in our devices,
applications, and the cloud helps our customers be more productive in their work
and personal lives. As with many innovations, AI presents risks and challenges
that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business. AI algorithms or
training methodologies may be flawed. Datasets may be overbroad, insufficient,
or contain biased information. Content generated by AI systems may be offensive,
illegal, or otherwise harmful. Ineffective or inadequate AI development or
deployment practices by Microsoft or others could result in incidents that
impair the acceptance of AI solutions or cause harm to individuals, customers,
or society, or result in our products and services not working as intended.
Human review of certain outputs may be required. As a result of these and other
challenges associated with innovative technologies, our implementation of AI
systems could subject us to competitive harm, regulatory action, legal
liability, including under new proposed legislation regulating AI in
jurisdictions such as the European Union (“EU”), new applications of existing
data protection, privacy, intellectual property, and other laws, and brand or
reputational harm. Some AI scenarios present ethical issues or may have broad
impacts on society. If we enable or offer AI solutions that have unintended
consequences, unintended usage or customization by our customers and partners,
or are controversial because of their impact on human rights, privacy,
employment, or other social, economic, or political issues, we may experience
brand or reputational harm, adversely affecting our business and consolidated
financial statements. Issues in the development and use of AI may result in
reputational or competitive harm or liability. We are building AI into many of
our offerings, including our productivity services, and we are also making AI
available for our customers to use in solutions that they build. This AI may be
developed by Microsoft or others, including our strategic partner, OpenAI. We
expect these elements of our business to grow. We envision a future in which AI
operating in our devices, applications, and the cloud helps our customers be
more productive in their work and personal lives. As with many innovations, AI
presents risks and challenges that could affect its adoption, and therefore our
business. AI algorithms or training methodologies may be flawed. Datasets may be
overbroad, insufficient, or contain biased information. Content generated by AI
systems may be offensive, illegal, or otherwise harmful. Ineffective or
inadequate AI development or deployment practices by Microsoft or others could
result in incidents that impair the acceptance of AI solutions or cause harm to
individuals, customers, or society, or result in our products and services not
working as intended. Human review of certain outputs may be required. As a
result of these and other challenges associated with innovative technologies,
our implementation of AI systems could subject us to competitive harm,
regulatory action, legal liability, including under new proposed legislation
regulating AI in jurisdictions such as the European Union (“EU”), new
applications of existing data protection, privacy, intellectual property, and
other laws, and brand or reputational harm. Some AI scenarios present ethical
issues or may have broad impacts on society. If we enable or offer AI solutions
that have unintended consequences, unintended usage or customization by our
customers and partners, or are controversial because of their impact on human
rights, privacy, employment, or other social, economic, or political issues, we
may experience brand or reputational harm, adversely affecting our business and
consolidated financial statements. 29 29 PART I PART I Item 1A Item 1A
OPERATIONAL RISKS OPERATIONAL RISKS We may have excessive outages, data losses,
and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain an adequate
operations infrastructure. Our increasing user traffic, growth in services, and
the complexity of our products and services demand more computing power. We
spend substantial amounts to build, purchase, or lease datacenters and equipment
and to upgrade our technology and network infrastructure to handle more traffic
on our websites and in our datacenters. Our datacenters depend on the
availability of permitted and buildable land, predictable energy, networking
supplies, and servers, including graphics processing units (“GPUs”) and other
components. The cost or availability of these dependencies could be adversely
affected by a variety of factors, including the transition to a clean energy
economy, local and regional environmental regulations, and geopolitical
disruptions. These demands continue to increase as we introduce new products and
services and support the growth and the augmentation of existing services such
as Bing, Azure, Microsoft Account services, Microsoft 365, Microsoft Teams,
Dynamics 365, OneDrive, SharePoint Online, Skype, Xbox, and Outlook. com through
the incorporation of AI features and/or functionality. We are rapidly growing
our business of providing a platform and back-end hosting for services provided
by third parties to their end users. Maintaining, securing, and expanding this
infrastructure is expensive and complex, and requires development of principles
for datacenter builds in geographies with higher safety and reliability risks.
It requires that we maintain an Internet connectivity infrastructure and storage
and compute capacity that is robust and reliable within competitive and
regulatory constraints that continue to evolve. Inefficiencies or operational
failures, including temporary or permanent loss of customer data, insufficient
Internet connectivity, insufficient or unavailable power supply, or inadequate
storage and compute capacity, could diminish the quality of our products,
services, and user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by
customers and other third parties, regulatory actions, damage to our reputation,
and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of
which may adversely impact our consolidated financial statements. We may have
excessive outages, data losses, and disruptions of our online services if we
fail to maintain an adequate operations infrastructure. Our increasing user
traffic, growth in services, and the complexity of our products and services
demand more computing power. We spend substantial amounts to build, purchase, or
lease datacenters and equipment and to upgrade our technology and network
infrastructure to handle more traffic on our websites and in our datacenters.
Our datacenters depend on the availability of permitted and buildable land,
predictable energy, networking supplies, and servers, including graphics
processing units (“GPUs”) and other components. The cost or availability of
these dependencies could be adversely affected by a variety of factors,
including the transition to a clean energy economy, local and regional
environmental regulations, and geopolitical disruptions. These demands continue
to increase as we introduce new products and services and support the growth and
the augmentation of existing services such as Bing, Azure, Microsoft Account
services, Microsoft 365, Microsoft Teams, Dynamics 365, OneDrive, SharePoint
Online, Skype, Xbox, and Outlook. com through the incorporation of AI features
and/or functionality. We are rapidly growing our business of providing a
platform and back-end hosting for services provided by third parties to their
end users. Maintaining, securing, and expanding this infrastructure is expensive
and complex, and requires development of principles for datacenter builds in
geographies with higher safety and reliability risks. It requires that we
maintain an Internet connectivity infrastructure and storage and compute
capacity that is robust and reliable within competitive and regulatory
constraints that continue to evolve. Inefficiencies or operational failures,
including temporary or permanent loss of customer data, insufficient Internet
connectivity, insufficient or unavailable power supply, or inadequate storage
and compute capacity, could diminish the quality of our products, services, and
user experience resulting in contractual liability, claims by customers and
other third parties, regulatory actions, damage to our reputation, and loss of
current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers, each of which may
adversely impact our consolidated financial statements. We may experience
quality or supply problems. Our hardware products such as Xbox consoles, Surface
devices, and other devices we design and market are highly complex and can have
defects in design, manufacture, or associated software. We could incur
significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm as a result of
recalls, safety alerts, or product liability claims if we fail to prevent,
detect, or address such issues through design, testing, or warranty repairs. We
may experience quality or supply problems. Our hardware products such as Xbox
consoles, Surface devices, and other devices we design and market are highly
complex and can have defects in design, manufacture, or associated software. We
could incur significant expenses, lost revenue, and reputational harm as a
result of recalls, safety alerts, or product liability claims if we fail to
prevent, detect, or address such issues through design, testing, or warranty
repairs. Our software products and services also may experience quality or
reliability problems. The highly sophisticated software we develop may contain
bugs and other defects that interfere with their intended operation. Our
customers increasingly rely on us for critical business functions and multiple
workloads. Many of our products and services are interdependent with one
another. Each of these circumstances potentially magnifies the impact of quality
or reliability issues. Any defects we do not detect and fix in pre-release
testing could cause reduced sales and revenue, damage to our reputation, repair
or remediation costs, delays in the release of new products or versions, or
legal liability. Although our license agreements typically contain provisions
that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability, there is no assurance these
provisions will withstand legal challenge. Our software products and services
also may experience quality or reliability problems. The highly sophisticated
software we develop may contain bugs and other defects that interfere with their
intended operation. Our customers increasingly rely on us for critical business
functions and multiple workloads. Many of our products and services are
interdependent with one another. Each of these circumstances potentially
magnifies the impact of quality or reliability issues. Any defects we do not
detect and fix in pre-release testing could cause reduced sales and revenue,
damage to our reputation, repair or remediation costs, delays in the release of
new products or versions, or legal liability. Although our license agreements
typically contain provisions that eliminate or limit our exposure to liability,
there is no assurance these provisions will withstand legal challenge. There are
limited suppliers for certain device and datacenter components. Our competitors
use some of the same suppliers and their demand for hardware components can
affect the capacity available to us. If components are delayed or become
unavailable, whether because of supplier capacity constraint, industry
shortages, legal or regulatory changes that restrict supply sources, or other
reasons, we may not obtain timely replacement supplies, resulting in reduced
sales or inadequate datacenter capacity to support the delivery and continued
development of our products and services. Component shortages, excess or
obsolete inventory, or price reductions resulting in inventory adjustments may
increase our cost of revenue. Xbox consoles, Surface devices, datacenter
servers, and other hardware are assembled in Asia and other geographies that may
be subject to disruptions in the supply chain, resulting in shortages that would
affect our revenue and operating margins. There are limited suppliers for
certain device and datacenter components. Our competitors use some of the same
suppliers and their demand for hardware components can affect the capacity
available to us. If components are delayed or become unavailable, whether
because of supplier capacity constraint, industry shortages, legal or regulatory
changes that restrict supply sources, or other reasons, we may not obtain timely
replacement supplies, resulting in reduced sales or inadequate datacenter
capacity to support the delivery and continued development of our products and
services. Component shortages, excess or obsolete inventory, or price reductions
resulting in inventory adjustments may increase our cost of revenue. Xbox
consoles, Surface devices, datacenter servers, and other hardware are assembled
in Asia and other geographies that may be subject to disruptions in the supply
chain, resulting in shortages that would affect our revenue and operating
margins. LEGAL, REGULATORY, AND LITIGATION RISKS LEGAL, REGULATORY, AND
LITIGATION RISKS Government litigation and regulatory activity relating to
competition rules may limit how we design and market our products. Government
agencies closely scrutinize us under U. S. and foreign competition laws.
Governments are actively enforcing competition laws and regulations, and this
includes scrutiny in potentially large markets such as the EU, the U. S. , and
China. Some jurisdictions also allow competitors or consumers to assert claims
of anti-competitive conduct. U. S. federal and state antitrust authorities have
previously brought enforcement actions and continue to scrutinize our business.
Government litigation and regulatory activity relating to competition rules may
limit how we design and market our products. Government agencies closely
scrutinize us under U. S. and foreign competition laws. Governments are actively
enforcing competition laws and regulations, and this includes scrutiny in
potentially large markets such as the EU, the U. S. , and China. Some
jurisdictions also allow competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-
competitive conduct. U. S. federal and state antitrust authorities have
previously brought enforcement actions and continue to scrutinize our business.
30 30 PART I PART I Item 1A Item 1A For example, the European Commission (“the
Commission”) closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume Microsoft products
and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in these products, such
as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols, available to other
companies. Flagship product releases such as Windows can receive significant
scrutiny under EU or other competition laws. For example, the European
Commission (“the Commission”) closely scrutinizes the design of high-volume
Microsoft products and the terms on which we make certain technologies used in
these products, such as file formats, programming interfaces, and protocols,
available to other companies. Flagship product releases such as Windows can
receive significant scrutiny under EU or other competition laws. Our portfolio
of first-party devices continues to grow; at the same time our OEM partners
offer a large variety of devices for our platforms. As a result, increasingly we
both cooperate and compete with our OEM partners, creating a risk that we fail
to do so in compliance with competition rules. Regulatory scrutiny in this area
may increase. Certain foreign governments, particularly in China and other
countries in Asia, have advanced arguments under their competition laws that
exert downward pressure on royalties for our intellectual property. Our
portfolio of first-party devices continues to grow; at the same time our OEM
partners offer a large variety of devices for our platforms. As a result,
increasingly we both cooperate and compete with our OEM partners, creating a
risk that we fail to do so in compliance with competition rules. Regulatory
scrutiny in this area may increase. Certain foreign governments, particularly in
China and other countries in Asia, have advanced arguments under their
competition laws that exert downward pressure on royalties for our intellectual
property. Competition law regulatory actions and court decisions may result in
fines or hinder our ability to provide the benefits of our software to consumers
and businesses, reducing the attractiveness of our products and the revenue that
comes from them. New competition law actions could be initiated, potentially
using previous actions as precedent. The outcome of such actions, or steps taken
to avoid them, could adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including causing
us to withdraw products from or modify products for certain markets, decreasing
the value of our assets, adversely affecting our ability to monetize our
products, or inhibiting our ability to consummate acquisition or impose
conditions on acquisitions that may reduce their value. Competition law
regulatory actions and court decisions may result in fines or hinder our ability
to provide the benefits of our software to consumers and businesses, reducing
the attractiveness of our products and the revenue that comes from them. New
competition law actions could be initiated, potentially using previous actions
as precedent. The outcome of such actions, or steps taken to avoid them, could
adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including causing us to withdraw
products from or modify products for certain markets, decreasing the value of
our assets, adversely affecting our ability to monetize our products, or
inhibiting our ability to consummate acquisition or impose conditions on
acquisitions that may reduce their value. Laws and regulations relating to anti-
corruption and trade could result in increased costs, fines, criminal penalties,
or reputational damage. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and other
anti-corruption laws and regulations (“Anti-Corruption Laws”) prohibit corrupt
payments by our employees, vendors, or agents, and the accounting provisions of
the FCPA require us to maintain accurate books and records and adequate internal
controls. From time to time, we receive inquiries from authorities in the U. S.
and elsewhere which may be based on reports from employees and others about our
business activities outside the U. S. and our compliance with Anti-Corruption
Laws. Periodically, we receive such reports directly and investigate them, and
also cooperate with investigations by U. S. and foreign law enforcement
authorities. An example of increasing international regulatory complexity is the
EU Whistleblower Directive, initiated in 2021, which may present compliance
challenges to the extent it is implemented in different forms by EU member
states. Most countries in which we operate also have competition laws that
prohibit competitors from colluding or otherwise attempting to reduce
competition between themselves. While we devote substantial resources to our U.
S. and international compliance programs and have implemented policies,
training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments
and collusive activity, our employees, vendors, or agents may violate our
policies. Our failure to comply with Anti-Corruption Laws or competition laws
could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us,
our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and
damage to our reputation. Laws and regulations relating to anti-corruption and
trade could result in increased costs, fines, criminal penalties, or
reputational damage. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) and other anti-
corruption laws and regulations (“Anti-Corruption Laws”) prohibit corrupt
payments by our employees, vendors, or agents, and the accounting provisions of
the FCPA require us to maintain accurate books and records and adequate internal
controls. From time to time, we receive inquiries from authorities in the U. S.
and elsewhere which may be based on reports from employees and others about our
business activities outside the U. S. and our compliance with Anti-Corruption
Laws. Periodically, we receive such reports directly and investigate them, and
also cooperate with investigations by U. S. and foreign law enforcement
authorities. An example of increasing international regulatory complexity is the
EU Whistleblower Directive, initiated in 2021, which may present compliance
challenges to the extent it is implemented in different forms by EU member
states. Most countries in which we operate also have competition laws that
prohibit competitors from colluding or otherwise attempting to reduce
competition between themselves. While we devote substantial resources to our U.
S. and international compliance programs and have implemented policies,
training, and internal controls designed to reduce the risk of corrupt payments
and collusive activity, our employees, vendors, or agents may violate our
policies. Our failure to comply with Anti-Corruption Laws or competition laws
could result in significant fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us,
our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and
damage to our reputation. Increasing trade laws, policies, sanctions, and other
regulatory requirements also affect our operations in and outside the U. S.
relating to trade and investment. Economic sanctions in the U. S. , the EU, and
other countries prohibit most business with restricted entities or countries. U.
S. export controls restrict Microsoft from offering many of its products and
services to, or making investments in, certain entities in specified countries.
U. S. import controls restrict us from integrating certain information and
communication technologies into our supply chain and allow for government review
of transactions involving information and communications technology from
countries determined to be foreign adversaries. Supply chain regulations may
impact the availability of goods or result in additional regulatory scrutiny.
Periods of intense diplomatic or armed conflict, such as the ongoing conflict in
Ukraine, may result in (1) new and rapidly evolving sanctions and trade
restrictions, which may impair trade with sanctioned individuals and countries,
and (2) negative impacts to regional trade ecosystems among our customers,
partners, and us. Non-compliance with sanctions as well as general ecosystem
disruptions could result in reputational harm, operational delays, monetary
fines, loss of revenues, increased costs, loss of export privileges, or criminal
sanctions. Increasing trade laws, policies, sanctions, and other regulatory
requirements also affect our operations in and outside the U. S. relating to
trade and investment. Economic sanctions in the U. S. , the EU, and other
countries prohibit most business with restricted entities or countries. U. S.
export controls restrict Microsoft from offering many of its products and
services to, or making investments in, certain entities in specified countries.
U. S. import controls restrict us from integrating certain information and
communication technologies into our supply chain and allow for government review
of transactions involving information and communications technology from
countries determined to be foreign adversaries. Supply chain regulations may
impact the availability of goods or result in additional regulatory scrutiny.
Periods of intense diplomatic or armed conflict, such as the ongoing conflict in
Ukraine, may result in (1) new and rapidly evolving sanctions and trade
restrictions, which may impair trade with sanctioned individuals and countries,
and (2) negative impacts to regional trade ecosystems among our customers,
partners, and us. Non-compliance with sanctions as well as general ecosystem
disruptions could result in reputational harm, operational delays, monetary
fines, loss of revenues, increased costs, loss of export privileges, or criminal
sanctions. 31 31 PART I PART I Item 1A Item 1A Laws and regulations relating to
the handling of personal data may impede the adoption of our services or result
in increased costs, legal claims, fines against us, or reputational damage. The
growth of our Internet- and cloud-based services internationally relies
increasingly on the movement of data across national boundaries. Legal
requirements relating to the collection, storage, handling, and transfer of
personal data continue to evolve. For example, while the EU-U. S. Data Privacy
Framework (“DPF”) has been recognized as adequate under EU law to allow
transfers of personal data from the EU to certified companies in the U. S. , the
DPF is subject to further legal challenge which could cause the legal
requirements for data transfers from the EU to be uncertain. EU data protection
authorities have and may again block the use of certain U. S. -based services
that involve the transfer of data to the U. S. In the EU and other markets,
potential new rules and restrictions on the flow of data across borders could
increase the cost and complexity of delivering our products and services. Laws
and regulations relating to the handling of personal data may impede the
adoption of our services or result in increased costs, legal claims, fines
against us, or reputational damage. The growth of our Internet- and cloud-based
services internationally relies increasingly on the movement of data across
national boundaries. Legal requirements relating to the collection, storage,
handling, and transfer of personal data continue to evolve. For example, while
the EU-U. S. Data Privacy Framework (“DPF”) has been recognized as adequate
under EU law to allow transfers of personal data from the EU to certified
companies in the U. S. , the DPF is subject to further legal challenge which
could cause the legal requirements for data transfers from the EU to be
uncertain. EU data protection authorities have and may again block the use of
certain U. S. -based services that involve the transfer of data to the U. S. In
the EU and other markets, potential new rules and restrictions on the flow of
data across borders could increase the cost and complexity of delivering our
products and services. In addition, the EU General Data Protection Regulation
(“GDPR”), which applies to all of our activities conducted from an establishment
in the EU or related to products and services offered in the EU, imposes a range
of compliance obligations regarding the handling of personal data. More
recently, the EU has been developing new requirements related to the use of
data, including in the Digital Markets Act, the Digital Services Act, and the
Data Act, that add additional rules and restriction on the use of data in our
products and services. Engineering efforts to build and maintain capabilities to
facilitate compliance with these laws involve substantial expense and the
diversion of engineering resources from other projects. We might experience
reduced demand for our offerings if we are unable to engineer products that meet
our legal duties or help our customers meet their obligations under these and
other data regulations, or if our implementation to comply makes our offerings
less attractive. Compliance with these obligations depends in part on how
particular regulators interpret and apply them. If we fail to comply, or if
regulators assert we have failed to comply (including in response to complaints
made by customers), it may lead to regulatory enforcement actions, which can
result in significant monetary penalties, private lawsuits, reputational damage,
blockage of international data transfers, and loss of customers. The highest
fines assessed under GDPR have recently been increasing, especially against
large technology companies. Jurisdictions around the world, such as China,
India, and states in the U. S. have adopted, or are considering adopting or
expanding, laws and regulations imposing obligations regarding the collection,
handling, and transfer of personal data. In addition, the EU General Data
Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), which applies to all of our activities conducted
from an establishment in the EU or related to products and services offered in
the EU, imposes a range of compliance obligations regarding the handling of
personal data. More recently, the EU has been developing new requirements
related to the use of data, including in the Digital Markets Act, the Digital
Services Act, and the Data Act, that add additional rules and restriction on the
use of data in our products and services. Engineering efforts to build and
maintain capabilities to facilitate compliance with these laws involve
substantial expense and the diversion of engineering resources from other
projects. We might experience reduced demand for our offerings if we are unable
to engineer products that meet our legal duties or help our customers meet their
obligations under these and other data regulations, or if our implementation to
comply makes our offerings less attractive. Compliance with these obligations
depends in part on how particular regulators interpret and apply them. If we
fail to comply, or if regulators assert we have failed to comply (including in
response to complaints made by customers), it may lead to regulatory enforcement
actions, which can result in significant monetary penalties, private lawsuits,
reputational damage, blockage of international data transfers, and loss of
customers. The highest fines assessed under GDPR have recently been increasing,
especially against large technology companies. Jurisdictions around the world,
such as China, India, and states in the U. S. have adopted, or are considering
adopting or expanding, laws and regulations imposing obligations regarding the
collection, handling, and transfer of personal data. Our investment in gaining
insights from data is becoming central to the value of the services, including
AI services, we deliver to customers, to operational efficiency and key
opportunities in monetization, and to customer perceptions of quality. Our
ability to use data in this way may be constrained by regulatory developments
that impede realizing the expected return from this investment. Ongoing legal
analyses, reviews, and inquiries by regulators of Microsoft practices, or
relevant practices of other organizations, may result in burdensome or
inconsistent requirements, including data sovereignty and localization
requirements, affecting the location, movement, collection, and use of our
customer and internal employee data as well as the management of that data.
Compliance with applicable laws and regulations regarding personal data may
require changes in services, business practices, or internal systems that result
in increased costs, lower revenue, reduced efficiency, or greater difficulty in
competing with foreign-based firms. Compliance with data regulations might limit
our ability to innovate or offer certain features and functionality in some
jurisdictions where we operate. Failure to comply with existing or new rules may
result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged noncompliant
activity, as well as negative publicity and diversion of management time and
effort. Our investment in gaining insights from data is becoming central to the
value of the services, including AI services, we deliver to customers, to
operational efficiency and key opportunities in monetization, and to customer
perceptions of quality. Our ability to use data in this way may be constrained
by regulatory developments that impede realizing the expected return from this
investment. Ongoing legal analyses, reviews, and inquiries by regulators of
Microsoft practices, or relevant practices of other organizations, may result in
burdensome or inconsistent requirements, including data sovereignty and
localization requirements, affecting the location, movement, collection, and use
of our customer and internal employee data as well as the management of that
data. Compliance with applicable laws and regulations regarding personal data
may require changes in services, business practices, or internal systems that
result in increased costs, lower revenue, reduced efficiency, or greater
difficulty in competing with foreign-based firms. Compliance with data
regulations might limit our ability to innovate or offer certain features and
functionality in some jurisdictions where we operate. Failure to comply with
existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the
alleged noncompliant activity, as well as negative publicity and diversion of
management time and effort. Existing and increasing legal and regulatory
requirements could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to
a wide range of laws, regulations, and legal requirements in the U. S. and
globally, including those that may apply to our products and online services
offerings, and those that impose requirements related to user privacy,
telecommunications, data storage and protection, advertising, and online
content. Laws in several jurisdictions, including EU Member State laws under the
European Electronic Communications Code, increasingly define certain of our
services as regulated telecommunications services. This trend may continue and
will result in these offerings being subjected to additional data protection,
security, law enforcement surveillance, and other obligations. Regulators and
private litigants may assert that our collection, use, and management of
customer data and other information is inconsistent with their laws and
regulations, including laws that apply to the tracking of users via technology
such as cookies. New environmental, social, and governance laws and regulations
are expanding mandatory disclosure, reporting, and diligence requirements.
Legislative or regulatory action relating to cybersecurity requirements may
increase the costs to develop, implement, or secure our products and services.
Compliance with evolving digital accessibility laws and standards will require
engineering and is important to our efforts to empower all people and
organizations to achieve more. Legislative and regulatory action is emerging in
the areas of AI and content moderation, which could increase costs or restrict
opportunity. For example, in the EU, an AI Act is being considered, and may
entail increased costs or decreased opportunities for the operation of our AI
services in the European market. Existing and increasing legal and regulatory
requirements could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to
a wide range of laws, regulations, and legal requirements in the U. S. and
globally, including those that may apply to our products and online services
offerings, and those that impose requirements related to user privacy,
telecommunications, data storage and protection, advertising, and online
content. Laws in several jurisdictions, including EU Member State laws under the
European Electronic Communications Code, increasingly define certain of our
services as regulated telecommunications services. This trend may continue and
will result in these offerings being subjected to additional data protection,
security, law enforcement surveillance, and other obligations. Regulators and
private litigants may assert that our collection, use, and management of
customer data and other information is inconsistent with their laws and
regulations, including laws that apply to the tracking of users via technology
such as cookies. New environmental, social, and governance laws and regulations
are expanding mandatory disclosure, reporting, and diligence requirements.
Legislative or regulatory action relating to cybersecurity requirements may
increase the costs to develop, implement, or secure our products and services.
Compliance with evolving digital accessibility laws and standards will require
engineering and is important to our efforts to empower all people and
organizations to achieve more. Legislative and regulatory action is emerging in
the areas of AI and content moderation, which could increase costs or restrict
opportunity. For example, in the EU, an AI Act is being considered, and may
entail increased costs or decreased opportunities for the operation of our AI
services in the European market. 32 32 PART I PART I Item 1A Item 1A How these
laws and regulations apply to our business is often unclear, subject to change
over time, and sometimes may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
In addition, governments’ approach to enforcement, and our products and
services, are continuing to evolve. Compliance with existing, expanding, or new
laws and regulations may involve significant costs or require changes in
products or business practices that could adversely affect our results of
operations. Noncompliance could result in the imposition of penalties or orders
we cease the alleged noncompliant activity. In addition, there is increasing
pressure from advocacy groups, regulators, competitors, customers, and other
stakeholders across many of these areas. If our products do not meet customer
expectations or legal requirements, we could lose sales opportunities or face
regulatory or legal actions. How these laws and regulations apply to our
business is often unclear, subject to change over time, and sometimes may be
inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. In addition, governments’
approach to enforcement, and our products and services, are continuing to
evolve. Compliance with existing, expanding, or new laws and regulations may
involve significant costs or require changes in products or business practices
that could adversely affect our results of operations. Noncompliance could
result in the imposition of penalties or orders we cease the alleged
noncompliant activity. In addition, there is increasing pressure from advocacy
groups, regulators, competitors, customers, and other stakeholders across many
of these areas. If our products do not meet customer expectations or legal
requirements, we could lose sales opportunities or face regulatory or legal
actions. We have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse
outcomes. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. These claims may
arise from a wide variety of business practices and initiatives, including major
new product releases such as Windows, AI services, significant business
transactions, warranty or product claims, employment practices, and regulation.
Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant
monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to
conduct our business. The litigation and other claims are subject to inherent
uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. A
material adverse impact in our consolidated financial statements could occur for
the period in which the effect of an unfavorable outcome becomes probable and
reasonably estimable. We have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in
adverse outcomes. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. These
claims may arise from a wide variety of business practices and initiatives,
including major new product releases such as Windows, AI services, significant
business transactions, warranty or product claims, employment practices, and
regulation. Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in
significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect
our ability to conduct our business. The litigation and other claims are subject
to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in
the future. A material adverse impact in our consolidated financial statements
could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable outcome becomes
probable and reasonably estimable. Our business with government customers may
present additional uncertainties. We derive substantial revenue from government
contracts. Government contracts generally can present risks and challenges not
present in private commercial agreements. For instance, we may be subject to
government audits and investigations relating to these contracts, we could be
suspended or debarred as a governmental contractor, we could incur civil and
criminal fines and penalties, and under certain circumstances contracts may be
rescinded. Some agreements may allow a government to terminate without cause and
provide for higher liability limits for certain losses. Some contracts may be
subject to periodic funding approval, reductions, cancellations, or delays which
could adversely impact public-sector demand for our products and services. These
events could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition,
and reputation. Our business with government customers may present additional
uncertainties. We derive substantial revenue from government contracts.
Government contracts generally can present risks and challenges not present in
private commercial agreements. For instance, we may be subject to government
audits and investigations relating to these contracts, we could be suspended or
debarred as a governmental contractor, we could incur civil and criminal fines
and penalties, and under certain circumstances contracts may be rescinded. Some
agreements may allow a government to terminate without cause and provide for
higher liability limits for certain losses. Some contracts may be subject to
periodic funding approval, reductions, cancellations, or delays which could
adversely impact public-sector demand for our products and services. These
events could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition,
and reputation. We may have additional tax liabilities. We are subject to income
taxes in the U. S. and many foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is
required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the course
of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate
tax determination is uncertain. For example, compliance with the 2017 United
States Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) and possible future legislative changes
may require the collection of information not regularly produced within the
company, the use of estimates in our consolidated financial statements, and the
exercise of significant judgment in accounting for its provisions. As
regulations and guidance evolve with respect to the TCJA or possible future
legislative changes, and as we gather more information and perform more
analysis, our results may differ from previous estimates and may materially
affect our consolidated financial statements. We may have additional tax
liabilities. We are subject to income taxes in the U. S. and many foreign
jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide
provision for income taxes. In the course of our business, there are many
transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain.
For example, compliance with the 2017 United States Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
(“TCJA”) and possible future legislative changes may require the collection of
information not regularly produced within the company, the use of estimates in
our consolidated financial statements, and the exercise of significant judgment
in accounting for its provisions. As regulations and guidance evolve with
respect to the TCJA or possible future legislative changes, and as we gather
more information and perform more analysis, our results may differ from previous
estimates and may materially affect our consolidated financial statements. We
are regularly under audit by tax authorities in different jurisdictions.
Although we believe that our provision for income taxes and our tax estimates
are reasonable, tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have
taken. In addition, economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in
various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes favorably more difficult.
We are currently under Internal Revenue Service audit for prior tax years, with
the primary unresolved issues relating to transfer pricing. The final resolution
of those audits, and other audits or litigation, may differ from the amounts
recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our
consolidated financial statements in the period or periods in which that
determination is made. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities in
different jurisdictions. Although we believe that our provision for income taxes
and our tax estimates are reasonable, tax authorities may disagree with certain
positions we have taken. In addition, economic and political pressures to
increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes
favorably more difficult. We are currently under Internal Revenue Service audit
for prior tax years, with the primary unresolved issues relating to transfer
pricing. The final resolution of those audits, and other audits or litigation,
may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements
and may materially affect our consolidated financial statements in the period or
periods in which that determination is made. We earn a significant amount of our
operating income outside the U. S. A change in the mix of earnings and losses in
countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our business or
structure, or the expiration of or disputes about certain tax agreements in a
particular country may result in higher effective tax rates for the company. In
addition, changes in U. S. federal and state or international tax laws
applicable to corporate multinationals, other fundamental law changes currently
being considered by many countries, including in the U. S. , and changes in
taxing jurisdictions’ administrative interpretations, decisions, policies, and
positions may materially adversely impact our consolidated financial statements.
We earn a significant amount of our operating income outside the U. S. A change
in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax
rates, changes in our business or structure, or the expiration of or disputes
about certain tax agreements in a particular country may result in higher
effective tax rates for the company. In addition, changes in U. S. federal and
state or international tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, other
fundamental law changes currently being considered by many countries, including
in the U. S. , and changes in taxing jurisdictions’ administrative
interpretations, decisions, policies, and positions may materially adversely
impact our consolidated financial statements. 33 33 PART I PART I Item 1A Item
1A INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RISKS INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RISKS We face risks related
to the protection and utilization of our intellectual property that may result
in our business and operating results may be harmed. Protecting our intellectual
property rights and combating unlicensed copying and use of our software and
other intellectual property on a global basis is difficult. Similarly, the
absence of harmonized patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent
respect for patent rights. We face risks related to the protection and
utilization of our intellectual property that may result in our business and
operating results may be harmed. Protecting our intellectual property rights and
combating unlicensed copying and use of our software and other intellectual
property on a global basis is difficult. Similarly, the absence of harmonized
patent laws makes it more difficult to ensure consistent respect for patent
rights. Changes in the law may continue to weaken our ability to prevent the use
of patented technology or collect revenue for licensing our patents.
Additionally, licensees of our patents may fail to satisfy their obligations to
pay us royalties or may contest the scope and extent of their obligations.
Finally, our increasing engagement with open source software will also cause us
to license our intellectual property rights broadly in certain situations. If we
are unable to protect our intellectual property, our revenue may be adversely
affected. Changes in the law may continue to weaken our ability to prevent the
use of patented technology or collect revenue for licensing our patents.
Additionally, licensees of our patents may fail to satisfy their obligations to
pay us royalties or may contest the scope and extent of their obligations.
Finally, our increasing engagement with open source software will also cause us
to license our intellectual property rights broadly in certain situations. If we
are unable to protect our intellectual property, our revenue may be adversely
affected. Source code, the detailed program commands for our operating systems
and other software programs, is critical to our business. If our source code
leaks, we might lose future trade secret protection for that code. It may then
become easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying
functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue and operating results.
Unauthorized disclosure of source code also could increase the security risks
described elsewhere in these risk factors. Source code, the detailed program
commands for our operating systems and other software programs, is critical to
our business. If our source code leaks, we might lose future trade secret
protection for that code. It may then become easier for third parties to compete
with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our
revenue and operating results. Unauthorized disclosure of source code also could
increase the security risks described elsewhere in these risk factors. Third
parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property. From time to
time, others claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. To resolve
these claims, we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on terms that
are less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected
products or services, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with
our customers. Adverse outcomes could also include monetary damages or
injunctive relief that may limit or prevent importing, marketing, and selling
our products or services that have infringing technologies. We have paid
significant amounts to settle claims related to the use of technology and
intellectual property rights and to procure intellectual property rights as part
of our strategy to manage this risk, and may continue to do so. Third parties
may claim that we infringe their intellectual property. From time to time,
others claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. To resolve these
claims, we may enter into royalty and licensing agreements on terms that are
less favorable than currently available, stop selling or redesign affected
products or services, or pay damages to satisfy indemnification commitments with
our customers. Adverse outcomes could also include monetary damages or
injunctive relief that may limit or prevent importing, marketing, and selling
our products or services that have infringing technologies. We have paid
significant amounts to settle claims related to the use of technology and
intellectual property rights and to procure intellectual property rights as part
of our strategy to manage this risk, and may continue to do so. GENERAL RISKS
GENERAL RISKS If our reputation or our brands are damaged, our business and
operating results may be harmed. Our reputation and brands are globally
recognized and are important to our business. Our reputation and brands affect
our ability to attract and retain consumer, business, and public-sector
customers. There are numerous ways our reputation or brands could be damaged.
These include product safety or quality issues, our environmental impact and
sustainability, supply chain practices, or human rights record. We may
experience backlash from customers, government entities, advocacy groups,
employees, and other stakeholders that disagree with our product offering
decisions or public policy positions. Damage to our reputation or our brands may
occur from, among other things: If our reputation or our brands are damaged, our
business and operating results may be harmed. Our reputation and brands are
globally recognized and are important to our business. Our reputation and brands
affect our ability to attract and retain consumer, business, and public-sector
customers. There are numerous ways our reputation or brands could be damaged.
These include product safety or quality issues, our environmental impact and
sustainability, supply chain practices, or human rights record. We may
experience backlash from customers, government entities, advocacy groups,
employees, and other stakeholders that disagree with our product offering
decisions or public policy positions. Damage to our reputation or our brands may
occur from, among other things: •The introduction of new features, products,
services, or terms of service that customers, users, or partners do not like. •
The introduction of new features, products, services, or terms of service that
customers, users, or partners do not like. The introduction of new features,
products, services, or terms of service that customers, users, or partners do
not like. •Public scrutiny of our decisions regarding user privacy, data
practices, or content. • Public scrutiny of our decisions regarding user
privacy, data practices, or content. Public scrutiny of our decisions regarding
user privacy, data practices, or content. •Data security breaches, compliance
failures, or actions of partners or individual employees. • Data security
breaches, compliance failures, or actions of partners or individual employees.
Data security breaches, compliance failures, or actions of partners or
individual employees. The proliferation of social media may increase the
likelihood, speed, and magnitude of negative brand events. If our brands or
reputation are damaged, it could negatively impact our revenues or margins, or
ability to attract the most highly qualified employees. The proliferation of
social media may increase the likelihood, speed, and magnitude of negative brand
events. If our brands or reputation are damaged, it could negatively impact our
revenues or margins, or ability to attract the most highly qualified employees.
Adverse economic or market conditions may harm our business. Worsening economic
conditions, including inflation, recession, pandemic, or other changes in
economic conditions, may cause lower IT spending and adversely affect our
revenue. If demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices declines, or
consumer or business spending for those products declines, our revenue will be
adversely affected. Adverse economic or market conditions may harm our business.
Worsening economic conditions, including inflation, recession, pandemic, or
other changes in economic conditions, may cause lower IT spending and adversely
affect our revenue. If demand for PCs, servers, and other computing devices
declines, or consumer or business spending for those products declines, our
revenue will be adversely affected. Our product distribution system relies on an
extensive partner and retail network. OEMs building devices that run our
software have also been a significant means of distribution. The impact of
economic conditions on our partners, such as the bankruptcy of a major
distributor, OEM, or retailer, could cause sales channel disruption. Our product
distribution system relies on an extensive partner and retail network. OEMs
building devices that run our software have also been a significant means of
distribution. The impact of economic conditions on our partners, such as the
bankruptcy of a major distributor, OEM, or retailer, could cause sales channel
disruption. Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our
customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. As a result,
allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may
increase. Challenging economic conditions also may impair the ability of our
customers to pay for products and services they have purchased. As a result,
allowances for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may
increase. 34 34 PART I PART I Item 1A Item 1A We maintain an investment
portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These investments are
subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate risks, which may
be exacerbated by market downturns or events that affect global financial
markets. A significant part of our investment portfolio comprises U. S.
government securities. If global financial markets decline for long periods, or
if there is a downgrade of the U. S. government credit rating due to an actual
or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be
adversely affected and we could determine that more of our investments have
experienced a decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could
adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. We maintain an
investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities. These
investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market, and interest rate
risks, which may be exacerbated by market downturns or events that affect global
financial markets. A significant part of our investment portfolio comprises U.
S. government securities. If global financial markets decline for long periods,
or if there is a downgrade of the U. S. government credit rating due to an
actual or threatened default on government debt, our investment portfolio may be
adversely affected and we could determine that more of our investments have
experienced a decline in fair value, requiring impairment charges that could
adversely affect our consolidated financial statements. Catastrophic events or
geopolitical conditions may disrupt our business. A disruption or failure of our
systems or operations because of a major earthquake, weather event, cyberattack,
terrorist attack, pandemic, or other catastrophic event could cause delays in
completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions.
Our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our research and
development activities, and certain other essential business operations are in
the Seattle, Washington area, and we have other business operations in the
Silicon Valley area of California, both of which are seismically active regions.
A catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our
critical business or IT systems, or the infrastructure or systems they rely on,
such as power grids, could harm our ability to conduct normal business
operations. Providing our customers with more services and solutions in the
cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our systems and strength of our
business continuity management plans and magnifies the potential impact of
prolonged service outages in our consolidated financial statements. Catastrophic
events or geopolitical conditions may disrupt our business. A disruption or
failure of our systems or operations because of a major earthquake, weather
event, cyberattack, terrorist attack, pandemic, or other catastrophic event
could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other
critical functions. Our corporate headquarters, a significant portion of our
research and development activities, and certain other essential business
operations are in the Seattle, Washington area, and we have other business
operations in the Silicon Valley area of California, both of which are
seismically active regions. A catastrophic event that results in the destruction
or disruption of any of our critical business or IT systems, or the
infrastructure or systems they rely on, such as power grids, could harm our
ability to conduct normal business operations. Providing our customers with more
services and solutions in the cloud puts a premium on the resilience of our
systems and strength of our business continuity management plans and magnifies
the potential impact of prolonged service outages in our consolidated financial
statements. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict,
such as the ongoing conflict in Ukraine, pose a risk of general economic
disruption in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs and
negatively impact our ability to sell to and collect from customers in affected
markets. These conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for
technology investment decisions by our customers and may cause supply chain
disruptions for hardware manufacturers. Geopolitical change may result in
changing regulatory systems and requirements and market interventions that could
impact our operating strategies, access to national, regional, and global
markets, hiring, and profitability. Geopolitical instability may lead to
sanctions and impact our ability to do business in some markets or with some
public-sector customers. Any of these changes may negatively impact our
revenues. Abrupt political change, terrorist activity, and armed conflict, such
as the ongoing conflict in Ukraine, pose a risk of general economic disruption
in affected countries, which may increase our operating costs and negatively
impact our ability to sell to and collect from customers in affected markets.
These conditions also may add uncertainty to the timing and budget for
technology investment decisions by our customers and may cause supply chain
disruptions for hardware manufacturers. Geopolitical change may result in
changing regulatory systems and requirements and market interventions that could
impact our operating strategies, access to national, regional, and global
markets, hiring, and profitability. Geopolitical instability may lead to
sanctions and impact our ability to do business in some markets or with some
public-sector customers. Any of these changes may negatively impact our
revenues. The occurrence of regional epidemics or a global pandemic, such as
COVID-19, may adversely affect our operations, financial condition, and results
of operations. The extent to which global pandemics impact our business going
forward will depend on factors such as the duration and scope of the pandemic;
governmental, business, and individuals' actions in response to the pandemic;
and the impact on economic activity, including the possibility of recession or
financial market instability. Measures to contain a global pandemic may
intensify other risks described in these Risk Factors. The occurrence of
regional epidemics or a global pandemic, such as COVID-19, may adversely affect
our operations, financial condition, and results of operations. The extent to
which global pandemics impact our business going forward will depend on factors
such as the duration and scope of the pandemic; governmental, business, and
individuals' actions in response to the pandemic; and the impact on economic
activity, including the possibility of recession or financial market
instability. Measures to contain a global pandemic may intensify other risks
described in these Risk Factors. We may incur increased costs to effectively
manage these aspects of our business. If we are unsuccessful, it may adversely
impact our revenues, cash flows, market share growth, and reputation. We may
incur increased costs to effectively manage these aspects of our business. If we
are unsuccessful, it may adversely impact our revenues, cash flows, market share
growth, and reputation. The long-term effects of climate change on the global
economy and the IT industry in particular are unclear. Environmental regulations
or changes in the supply, demand, or available sources of energy or other
resources may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including
natural resources, necessary to run our business. Changes in climate where we
operate may increase the costs of powering and cooling computer hardware we use
to develop software and provide cloud-based services. The long-term effects of
climate change on the global economy and the IT industry in particular are
unclear. Environmental regulations or changes in the supply, demand, or
available sources of energy or other resources may affect the availability or
cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our
business. Changes in climate where we operate may increase the costs of powering
and cooling computer hardware we use to develop software and provide cloud-based
services. 35 35 PART I PART I Item 1A Item 1A Our global business exposes us to
operational and economic risks. Our customers are located throughout the world
and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. The global
nature of our business creates operational, economic, and geopolitical risks.
Our results of operations may be affected by global, regional, and local
economic developments, monetary policy, inflation, and recession, as well as
political and military disputes. In addition, our international growth strategy
includes certain markets, the developing nature of which presents several risks,
including deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a
country or region, and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations.
Emerging nationalist and protectionist trends and concerns about human rights,
the environment, and political expression in specific countries may
significantly alter the trade and commercial environments. Changes to trade
policy or agreements as a result of populism, protectionism, or economic
nationalism may result in higher tariffs, local sourcing initiatives, and non-
local sourcing restrictions, export controls, investment restrictions, or other
developments that make it more difficult to sell our products in foreign
countries. Disruptions of these kinds in developed or emerging markets could
negatively impact demand for our products and services, impair our ability to
operate in certain regions, or increase operating costs. Although we hedge a
portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in
foreign exchange rates between the U. S. dollar and foreign currencies may
adversely affect our results of operations. Our global business exposes us to
operational and economic risks. Our customers are located throughout the world
and a significant part of our revenue comes from international sales. The global
nature of our business creates operational, economic, and geopolitical risks.
Our results of operations may be affected by global, regional, and local
economic developments, monetary policy, inflation, and recession, as well as
political and military disputes. In addition, our international growth strategy
includes certain markets, the developing nature of which presents several risks,
including deterioration of social, political, labor, or economic conditions in a
country or region, and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations.
Emerging nationalist and protectionist trends and concerns about human rights,
the environment, and political expression in specific countries may
significantly alter the trade and commercial environments. Changes to trade
policy or agreements as a result of populism, protectionism, or economic
nationalism may result in higher tariffs, local sourcing initiatives, and non-
local sourcing restrictions, export controls, investment restrictions, or other
developments that make it more difficult to sell our products in foreign
countries. Disruptions of these kinds in developed or emerging markets could
negatively impact demand for our products and services, impair our ability to
operate in certain regions, or increase operating costs. Although we hedge a
portion of our international currency exposure, significant fluctuations in
foreign exchange rates between the U. S. dollar and foreign currencies may
adversely affect our results of operations. Our business depends on our ability
to attract and retain talented employees. Our business is based on successfully
attracting and retaining talented employees representing diverse backgrounds,
experiences, and skill sets. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders
in our industry is extremely competitive. Maintaining our brand and reputation,
as well as a diverse and inclusive work environment that enables all our
employees to thrive, are important to our ability to recruit and retain
employees. We are also limited in our ability to recruit internationally by
restrictive domestic immigration laws. Changes to U. S. immigration policies
that restrain the flow of technical and professional talent may inhibit our
ability to adequately staff our research and development efforts. If we are less
successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain highly skilled
workers and key leaders, our ability to develop and deliver successful products
and services may be adversely affected. Effective succession planning is also
important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of
knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our
strategic planning and execution. How employment-related laws are interpreted
and applied to our workforce practices may result in increased operating costs
and less flexibility in how we meet our workforce needs. Our global workforce is
predominantly non-unionized, although we do have some employees in the U. S. and
internationally who are represented by unions or works councils. In the U. S. ,
there has been a general increase in workers exercising their right to form or
join a union. The unionization of significant employee populations could result
in higher costs and other operational changes necessary to respond to changing
conditions and to establish new relationships with worker representatives. Our
business depends on our ability to attract and retain talented employees. Our
business is based on successfully attracting and retaining talented employees
representing diverse backgrounds, experiences, and skill sets. The market for
highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive.
Maintaining our brand and reputation, as well as a diverse and inclusive work
environment that enables all our employees to thrive, are important to our
ability to recruit and retain employees. We are also limited in our ability to
recruit internationally by restrictive domestic immigration laws. Changes to U.
S. immigration policies that restrain the flow of technical and professional
talent may inhibit our ability to adequately staff our research and development
efforts. If we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot
retain highly skilled workers and key leaders, our ability to develop and
deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. Effective
succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to
ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key
employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. How employment-
related laws are interpreted and applied to our workforce practices may result
in increased operating costs and less flexibility in how we meet our workforce
needs. Our global workforce is predominantly non-unionized, although we do have
some employees in the U. S. and internationally who are represented by unions or
works councils. In the U. S. , there has been a general increase in workers
exercising their right to form or join a union. The unionization of significant
employee populations could result in higher costs and other operational changes
necessary to respond to changing conditions and to establish new relationships
with worker representatives. 36 36 PART I PART I Item 1B, 2, 3, 4 Item 1B, 2, 3,
4 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVE D STAFF COMMENTS We have
received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the
staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or
more preceding the end of our fiscal year 2023 that remain unresolved. We have
received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the
staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or
more preceding the end of our fiscal year 2023 that remain unresolved. ITEM 2.
PROPERTIES ITEM 2. PR OPERTIES Our corporate headquarters are located in
Redmond, Washington. We have approximately 16 million square feet of space
located in King County, Washington that is used for engineering, sales,
marketing, and operations, among other general and administrative purposes.
These facilities include approximately 11 million square feet of owned space
situated on approximately 530 acres of land we own at our corporate
headquarters, and approximately 5 million square feet of space we lease. Our
corporate headquarters are located in Redmond, Washington. We have approximately
16 million square feet of space located in King County, Washington that is used
for engineering, sales, marketing, and operations, among other general and
administrative purposes. These facilities include approximately 11 million
square feet of owned space situated on approximately 530 acres of land we own at
our corporate headquarters, and approximately 5 million square feet of space we
lease. We own and lease other facilities domestically and internationally,
primarily for offices, datacenters, and research and development. The largest
owned international properties include space in the following locations: China,
India, Ireland, and the Netherlands. The largest leased international properties
include space in the following locations: Australia, Canada, China, France,
Germany, India, Ireland, Israel, Japan, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom.
Refer to Research and Development (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K) for further
discussion of our research and development facilities. We own and lease other
facilities domestically and internationally, primarily for offices, datacenters,
and research and development. The largest owned international properties include
space in the following locations: China, India, Ireland, and the Netherlands.
The largest leased international properties include space in the following
locations: Australia, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Israel,
Japan, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. Refer to Research and
Development (Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion of our
research and development facilities. In fiscal year 2023, we made decisions to
consolidate our office leases to create higher density across our workspaces,
and we may make similar decisions in future periods as we continue to evaluate
our real estate needs. In fiscal year 2023, we made decisions to consolidate our
office leases to create higher density across our workspaces, and we may make
similar decisions in future periods as we continue to evaluate our real estate
needs. The table below shows a summary of the square footage of our properties
owned and leased domestically and internationally as of June 30, 2023: The table
below shows a summary of the square footage of our properties owned and leased
domestically and internationally as of June 30, 2023: ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Refer to Note 15 – Contingencies of the Notes to
Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for information
regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved. Refer to Note 15 –
Contingencies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form
10-K) for information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved. ITEM
4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES ITEM 4. MINE SAFE TY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. Not
applicable. 37 37 PART II PART II Item 5 Item 5 PART II PAR T II ITEM 5. MARKET
FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COM MON EQUITY,
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES MARKET
AND STOCKHOLDERS MARKET AND STOCKHOLDERS Our common stock is traded on the
NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. On July 24, 2023, there were 83, 883
registered holders of record of our common stock. Our common stock is traded on
the NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol MSFT. On July 24, 2023, there were 83,
883 registered holders of record of our common stock. SHARE REPURCHASES AND
DIVIDENDS SHARE REPURCHASES AND DIVIDENDS Following are our monthly share
repurchases for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023: Following are our
monthly share repurchases for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023: All share
repurchases were made using cash resources. Our share repurchases may occur
through open market purchases or pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan. The
above table excludes shares repurchased to settle employee tax withholding
related to the vesting of stock awards. All share repurchases were made using
cash resources. Our share repurchases may occur through open market purchases or
pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan. The above table excludes shares
repurchased to settle employee tax withholding related to the vesting of stock
awards. Our Board of Directors declared the following dividends during the
fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023: Our Board of Directors declared the
following dividends during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023: We returned
$9. 7 billion to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends in
the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023. Refer to Note 16 – Stockholders’ Equity
of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for
further discussion regarding share repurchases and dividends. We returned $9. 7
billion to shareholders in the form of share repurchases and dividends in the
fourth quarter of fiscal year 2023. Refer to Note 16 – Stockholders’ Equity of
the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for
further discussion regarding share repurchases and dividends. 38 38 PART II PART
II Item 6 Item 6 ITEM 6. [RESERVED] ITEM 6. [R ESERVED] 39 39 PART II PART II
Item 7 Item 7 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(“MD&A”) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and
financial condition of Microsoft Corporation. MD&A is provided as a supplement
to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial
statements and the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8
of this Form 10-K). This section generally discusses the results of our
operations for the year ended June 30, 2023 compared to the year ended June 30,
2022. For a discussion of the year ended June 30, 2022 compared to the year
ended June 30, 2021, please refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2022. The following Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
(“MD&A”) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and
financial condition of Microsoft Corporation. MD&A is provided as a supplement
to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial
statements and the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8
of this Form 10-K). This section generally discusses the results of our
operations for the year ended June 30, 2023 compared to the year ended June 30,
2022. For a discussion of the year ended June 30, 2022 compared to the year
ended June 30, 2021, please refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2022. OVERVIEW OVERVIEW
Microsoft is a technology company whose mission is to empower every person and
every organization on the planet to achieve more. We strive to create local
opportunity, growth, and impact in every country around the world. We are
creating the platforms and tools, powered by artificial intelligence (“AI”),
that deliver better, faster, and more effective solutions to support small and
large business competitiveness, improve educational and health outcomes, grow
public-sector efficiency, and empower human ingenuity. Microsoft is a technology
company whose mission is to empower every person and every organization on the
planet to achieve more. We strive to create local opportunity, growth, and
impact in every country around the world. We are creating the platforms and
tools, powered by artificial intelligence (“AI”), that deliver better, faster,
and more effective solutions to support small and large business
competitiveness, improve educational and health outcomes, grow public-sector
efficiency, and empower human ingenuity. We generate revenue by offering a wide
range of cloud-based solutions, content, and other services to people and
businesses; licensing and supporting an array of software products; delivering
relevant online advertising to a global audience; and designing and selling
devices. Our most significant expenses are related to compensating employees;
supporting and investing in our cloud-based services, including datacenter
operations; designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our other products
and services; and income taxes. We generate revenue by offering a wide range of
cloud-based solutions, content, and other services to people and businesses;
licensing and supporting an array of software products; delivering relevant
online advertising to a global audience; and designing and selling devices. Our
most significant expenses are related to compensating employees; supporting and
investing in our cloud-based services, including datacenter operations;
designing, manufacturing, marketing, and selling our other products and
services; and income taxes. Highlights from fiscal year 2023 compared with
fiscal year 2022 included: Highlights from fiscal year 2023 compared with fiscal
year 2022 included: •Microsoft Cloud revenue increased 22% to $111. 6 billion. •
Microsoft Cloud revenue increased 22% to $111. 6 billion. Microsoft Cloud
revenue increased 22% to $111. 6 billion. •Office Commercial products and cloud
services revenue increased 10% driven by Office 365 Commercial growth of 13%. •
Office Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 10% driven by
Office 365 Commercial growth of 13%. Office Commercial products and cloud
services revenue increased 10% driven by Office 365 Commercial growth of 13%.
•Office Consumer products and cloud services revenue increased 2% and Microsoft
365 Consumer subscribers increased to 67. 0 million. • Office Consumer products
and cloud services revenue increased 2% and Microsoft 365 Consumer subscribers
increased to 67. 0 million. Office Consumer products and cloud services revenue
increased 2% and Microsoft 365 Consumer subscribers increased to 67. 0 million.
•LinkedIn revenue increased 10%. • LinkedIn revenue increased 10%. LinkedIn
revenue increased 10%. •Dynamics products and cloud services revenue increased
16% driven by Dynamics 365 growth of 24%. • Dynamics products and cloud services
revenue increased 16% driven by Dynamics 365 growth of 24%. Dynamics products
and cloud services revenue increased 16% driven by Dynamics 365 growth of 24%.
•Server products and cloud services revenue increased 19% driven by Azure and
other cloud services growth of 29%. • Server products and cloud services revenue
increased 19% driven by Azure and other cloud services growth of 29%. Server
products and cloud services revenue increased 19% driven by Azure and other
cloud services growth of 29%. •Windows original equipment manufacturer licensing
(“Windows OEM”) revenue decreased 25%. • Windows original equipment manufacturer
licensing (“Windows OEM”) revenue decreased 25%. Windows original equipment
manufacturer licensing (“Windows OEM”) revenue decreased 25%. •Devices revenue
decreased 24%. • Devices revenue decreased 24%. Devices revenue decreased 24%.
•Windows Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 5%. • Windows
Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 5%. Windows Commercial
products and cloud services revenue increased 5%. •Xbox content and services
revenue decreased 3%. • Xbox content and services revenue decreased 3%. Xbox
content and services revenue decreased 3%. •Search and news advertising revenue
excluding traffic acquisition costs increased 11%. • Search and news advertising
revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs increased 11%. Search and news
advertising revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs increased 11%. Industry
Trends Industry Trends Our industry is dynamic and highly competitive, with
frequent changes in both technologies and business models. Each industry shift
is an opportunity to conceive new products, new technologies, or new ideas that
can further transform the industry and our business. At Microsoft, we push the
boundaries of what is possible through a broad range of research and development
activities that seek to identify and address the changing demands of customers
and users, industry trends, and competitive forces. Our industry is dynamic and
highly competitive, with frequent changes in both technologies and business
models. Each industry shift is an opportunity to conceive new products, new
technologies, or new ideas that can further transform the industry and our
business. At Microsoft, we push the boundaries of what is possible through a
broad range of research and development activities that seek to identify and
address the changing demands of customers and users, industry trends, and
competitive forces. 40 40 PART II PART II Item 7 Item 7 Economic Conditions,
Challenges, and Risks Economic Conditions, Challenges, and Risks The markets for
software, devices, and cloud-based services are dynamic and highly competitive.
Our competitors are developing new software and devices, while also deploying
competing cloud-based services for consumers and businesses. The devices and
form factors customers prefer evolve rapidly, influencing how users access
services in the cloud and, in some cases, the user’s choice of which suite of
cloud-based services to use. Aggregate demand for our software, services, and
devices is also correlated to global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors,
which remain dynamic. We must continue to evolve and adapt over an extended time
in pace with this changing environment. The markets for software, devices, and
cloud-based services are dynamic and highly competitive. Our competitors are
developing new software and devices, while also deploying competing cloud-based
services for consumers and businesses. The devices and form factors customers
prefer evolve rapidly, influencing how users access services in the cloud and,
in some cases, the user’s choice of which suite of cloud-based services to use.
Aggregate demand for our software, services, and devices is also correlated to
global macroeconomic and geopolitical factors, which remain dynamic. We must
continue to evolve and adapt over an extended time in pace with this changing
environment. The investments we are making in cloud and AI infrastructure and
devices will continue to increase our operating costs and may decrease our
operating margins. We continue to identify and evaluate opportunities to expand
our datacenter locations and increase our server capacity to meet the evolving
needs of our customers, particularly given the growing demand for AI services.
Our datacenters depend on the availability of permitted and buildable land,
predictable energy, networking supplies, and servers, including graphics
processing units (“GPUs”) and other components. Our devices are primarily
manufactured by third-party contract manufacturers. For the majority of our
products, we have the ability to use other manufacturers if a current vendor
becomes unavailable or unable to meet our requirements. However, some of our
products contain certain components for which there are very few qualified
suppliers. Extended disruptions at these suppliers could impact our ability to
manufacture devices on time to meet consumer demand. The investments we are
making in cloud and AI infrastructure and devices will continue to increase our
operating costs and may decrease our operating margins. We continue to identify
and evaluate opportunities to expand our datacenter locations and increase our
server capacity to meet the evolving needs of our customers, particularly given
the growing demand for AI services. Our datacenters depend on the availability
of permitted and buildable land, predictable energy, networking supplies, and
servers, including graphics processing units (“GPUs”) and other components. Our
devices are primarily manufactured by third-party contract manufacturers. For
the majority of our products, we have the ability to use other manufacturers if
a current vendor becomes unavailable or unable to meet our requirements.
However, some of our products contain certain components for which there are
very few qualified suppliers. Extended disruptions at these suppliers could
impact our ability to manufacture devices on time to meet consumer demand. Our
success is highly dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified
employees. We hire a mix of university and industry talent worldwide. We compete
for talented individuals globally by offering an exceptional working
environment, broad customer reach, scale in resources, the ability to grow one’s
career across many different products and businesses, and competitive
compensation and benefits. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to
attract and retain qualified employees. We hire a mix of university and industry
talent worldwide. We compete for talented individuals globally by offering an
exceptional working environment, broad customer reach, scale in resources, the
ability to grow one’s career across many different products and businesses, and
competitive compensation and benefits. Our international operations provide a
significant portion of our total revenue and expenses. Many of these revenue and
expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U. S. dollar. As a result,
changes in foreign exchange rates may significantly affect revenue and expenses.
Fluctuations in the U. S. dollar relative to certain foreign currencies reduced
reported revenue and expenses from our international operations in fiscal year
2023. Our international operations provide a significant portion of our total
revenue and expenses. Many of these revenue and expenses are denominated in
currencies other than the U. S. dollar. As a result, changes in foreign exchange
rates may significantly affect revenue and expenses. Fluctuations in the U. S.
dollar relative to certain foreign currencies reduced reported revenue and
expenses from our international operations in fiscal year 2023. On January 18,
2023, we announced decisions we made to align our cost structure with our
revenue and customer demand, prioritize our investments in strategic areas, and
consolidate office space. As a result, we recorded a $1. 2 billion charge in the
second quarter of fiscal year 2023 (“Q2 charge”), which included employee
severance expenses of $800 million, impairment charges resulting from changes to
our hardware portfolio, and costs related to lease consolidation activities.
First, we reduced our overall workforce by approximately 10, 000 jobs through
the third quarter of fiscal year 2023 related to the Q2 charge, which represents
less than 5% of our total employee base. While we eliminated roles in some
areas, we will continue to hire in key strategic areas. Second, we are
allocating both our capital and talent to areas of secular growth and long-term
competitiveness, while divesting in other areas. Third, we are consolidating our
leases to create higher density across our workspaces, which impacted our
financial results through the remainder of fiscal year 2023, and we may make
similar decisions in future periods as we continue to evaluate our real estate
needs. On January 18, 2023, we announced decisions we made to align our cost
structure with our revenue and customer demand, prioritize our investments in
strategic areas, and consolidate office space. As a result, we recorded a $1. 2
billion charge in the second quarter of fiscal year 2023 (“Q2 charge”), which
included employee severance expenses of $800 million, impairment charges
resulting from changes to our hardware portfolio, and costs related to lease
consolidation activities. First, we reduced our overall workforce by
approximately 10, 000 jobs through the third quarter of fiscal year 2023 related
to the Q2 charge, which represents less than 5% of our total employee base.
While we eliminated roles in some areas, we will continue to hire in key
strategic areas. Second, we are allocating both our capital and talent to areas
of secular growth and long-term competitiveness, while divesting in other areas.
Third, we are consolidating our leases to create higher density across our
workspaces, which impacted our financial results through the remainder of fiscal
year 2023, and we may make similar decisions in future periods as we continue to
evaluate our real estate needs. Refer to Risk Factors (Part I, Item 1A of this
Form 10-K) for a discussion of these factors and other risks. Refer to Risk
Factors (Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K) for a discussion of these factors
and other risks. Seasonality Seasonality Our revenue fluctuates quarterly and is
generally higher in the second and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. Second
quarter revenue is driven by corporate year-end spending trends in our major
markets and holiday season spending by consumers, and fourth quarter revenue is
driven by the volume of multi-year on-premises contracts executed during the
period. Our revenue fluctuates quarterly and is generally higher in the second
and fourth quarters of our fiscal year. Second quarter revenue is driven by
corporate year-end spending trends in our major markets and holiday season
spending by consumers, and fourth quarter revenue is driven by the volume of
multi-year on-premises contracts executed during the period. Change in
Accounting Estimate Change in Accounting Estimate In July 2022, we completed an
assessment of the useful lives of our server and network equipment. Due to
investments in software that increased efficiencies in how we operate our server
and network equipment, as well as advances in technology, we determined we
should increase the estimated useful lives of both server and network equipment
from four years to six years. This change in accounting estimate was effective
beginning fiscal year 2023. Based on the carrying amount of server and network
equipment included in property and equipment, net as of June 30, 2022, the
effect of this change in estimate for fiscal year 2023 was an increase in
operating income of $3. 7 billion and net income of $3. 0 billion, or $0. 40 per
both basic and diluted share. In July 2022, we completed an assessment of the
useful lives of our server and network equipment. Due to investments in software
that increased efficiencies in how we operate our server and network equipment,
as well as advances in technology, we determined we should increase the
estimated useful lives of both server and network equipment from four years to
six years. This change in accounting estimate was effective beginning fiscal
year 2023. Based on the carrying amount of server and network equipment included
in property and equipment, net as of June 30, 2022, the effect of this change in
estimate for fiscal year 2023 was an increase in operating income of $3. 7
billion and net income of $3. 0 billion, or $0. 40 per both basic and diluted
share. 41 41 PART II PART II Item 7 Item 7 Reportable Segments Reportable
Segments We report our financial performance based on the following segments:
Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal
Computing. The segment amounts included in MD&A are presented on a basis
consistent with our internal management reporting. We have recast certain prior
period amounts to conform to the way we internally manage and monitor our
business. We report our financial performance based on the following segments:
Productivity and Business Processes, Intelligent Cloud, and More Personal
Computing. The segment amounts included in MD&A are presented on a basis
consistent with our internal management reporting. We have recast certain prior
period amounts to conform to the way we internally manage and monitor our
business. Additional information on our reportable segments is contained in Note
19 – Segment Information and Geographic Data of the Notes to Financial
Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). Additional information on our
reportable segments is contained in Note 19 – Segment Information and Geographic
Data of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K).
Metrics Metrics We use metrics in assessing the performance of our business and
to make informed decisions regarding the allocation of resources. We disclose
metrics to enable investors to evaluate progress against our ambitions, provide
transparency into performance trends, and reflect the continued evolution of our
products and services. Our commercial and other business metrics are
fundamentally connected based on how customers use our products and services.
The metrics are disclosed in the MD&A or the Notes to Financial Statements (Part
II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). Financial metrics are calculated based on
financial results prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), and growth comparisons relate
to the corresponding period of last fiscal year. We use metrics in assessing the
performance of our business and to make informed decisions regarding the
allocation of resources. We disclose metrics to enable investors to evaluate
progress against our ambitions, provide transparency into performance trends,
and reflect the continued evolution of our products and services. Our commercial
and other business metrics are fundamentally connected based on how customers
use our products and services. The metrics are disclosed in the MD&A or the
Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). Financial
metrics are calculated based on financial results prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
(“GAAP”), and growth comparisons relate to the corresponding period of last
fiscal year. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2023, we made updates to the
presentation and method of calculation for certain metrics, most notably
expanding our Surface metric into a broader Devices metric to incorporate
additional revenue streams, along with other minor changes to align with how we
manage our businesses. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2023, we made updates
to the presentation and method of calculation for certain metrics, most notably
expanding our Surface metric into a broader Devices metric to incorporate
additional revenue streams, along with other minor changes to align with how we
manage our businesses. Commercial Commercial Our commercial business primarily
consists of Server products and cloud services, Office Commercial, Windows
Commercial, the commercial portion of LinkedIn, Enterprise Services, and
Dynamics. Our commercial metrics allow management and investors to assess the
overall health of our commercial business and include leading indicators of
future performance. Our commercial business primarily consists of Server
products and cloud services, Office Commercial, Windows Commercial, the
commercial portion of LinkedIn, Enterprise Services, and Dynamics. Our
commercial metrics allow management and investors to assess the overall health
of our commercial business and include leading indicators of future performance.
42 42 PART II PART II Item 7 Item 7 Productivity and Business Processes and
Intelligent Cloud Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud
Metrics related to our Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud
segments assess the health of our core businesses within these segments. The
metrics reflect our cloud and on-premises product strategies and trends. Metrics
related to our Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud
segments assess the health of our core businesses within these segments. The
metrics reflect our cloud and on-premises product strategies and trends. More
Personal Computing More Personal Computing Metrics related to our More Personal
Computing segment assess the performance of key lines of business within this
segment. These metrics provide strategic product insights which allow us to
assess the performance across our commercial and consumer businesses. As we have
diversity of target audiences and sales motions within the Windows business, we
monitor metrics that are reflective of those varying motions. Metrics related to
our More Personal Computing segment assess the performance of key lines of
business within this segment. These metrics provide strategic product insights
which allow us to assess the performance across our commercial and consumer
businesses. As we have diversity of target audiences and sales motions within
the Windows business, we monitor metrics that are reflective of those varying
motions. 43 43 PART II PART II Item 7 Item 7 SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
SUMMARY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Adjusted gross margin, operating income, net
income, and diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) are non-GAAP financial measures.
Current year non-GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of the Q2 charge,
which includes employee severance expenses, impairment charges resulting from
changes to our hardware portfolio, and costs related to lease consolidation
activities. Prior year non-GAAP financial measures exclude the net income tax
benefit related to transfer of intangible properties in the first quarter of
fiscal year 2022. Refer to Note 12 – Income Taxes of the Notes to Financial
Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion. Refer to
the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section below for a reconciliation of our
financial results reported in accordance with GAAP to non-GAAP financial
results. Adjusted gross margin, operating income, net income, and diluted
earnings per share (“EPS”) are non-GAAP financial measures. Current year non-
GAAP financial measures exclude the impact of the Q2 charge, which includes
employee severance expenses, impairment charges resulting from changes to our
hardware portfolio, and costs related to lease consolidation activities. Prior
year non-GAAP financial measures exclude the net income tax benefit related to
transfer of intangible properties in the first quarter of fiscal year 2022.
Refer to Note 12 – Income Taxes of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II,
Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion. Refer to the Non-GAAP
Financial Measures section below for a reconciliation of our financial results
reported in accordance with GAAP to non-GAAP financial results. Fiscal Year 2023
Compared with Fiscal Year 2022 Fiscal Year 2023 Compared with Fiscal Year 2022
Revenue increased $13. 6 billion or 7% driven by growth in Intelligent Cloud and
Productivity and Business Processes, offset in part by a decline in More
Personal Computing. Intelligent Cloud revenue increased driven by Azure and
other cloud services. Productivity and Business Processes revenue increased
driven by Office 365 Commercial and LinkedIn. More Personal Computing revenue
decreased driven by Windows and Devices. Revenue increased $13. 6 billion or 7%
driven by growth in Intelligent Cloud and Productivity and Business Processes,
offset in part by a decline in More Personal Computing. Intelligent Cloud
revenue increased driven by Azure and other cloud services. Productivity and
Business Processes revenue increased driven by Office 365 Commercial and
LinkedIn. More Personal Computing revenue decreased driven by Windows and
Devices. Cost of revenue increased $3. 2 billion or 5% driven by growth in
Microsoft Cloud, offset in part by the change in accounting estimate. Cost of
revenue increased $3. 2 billion or 5% driven by growth in Microsoft Cloud,
offset in part by the change in accounting estimate. Gross margin increased $10.
4 billion or 8% driven by growth in Intelligent Cloud and Productivity and
Business Processes and the change in accounting estimate, offset in part by a
decline in More Personal Computing. Gross margin increased $10. 4 billion or 8%
driven by growth in Intelligent Cloud and Productivity and Business Processes
and the change in accounting estimate, offset in part by a decline in More
Personal Computing. •Gross margin percentage increased slightly. Excluding the
impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage decreased 1
point driven by declines in Intelligent Cloud and More Personal Computing,
offset in part by sales mix shift between our segments. • Gross margin
percentage increased slightly. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting
estimate, gross margin percentage decreased 1 point driven by declines in
Intelligent Cloud and More Personal Computing, offset in part by sales mix shift
between our segments. Gross margin percentage increased slightly. Excluding the
impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage decreased 1
point driven by declines in Intelligent Cloud and More Personal Computing,
offset in part by sales mix shift between our segments. •Microsoft Cloud gross
margin percentage increased 2 points to 72%. Excluding the impact of the change
in accounting estimate, Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage decreased
slightly driven by a decline in Azure and other cloud services and sales mix
shift to Azure and other cloud services, offset in part by improvement in Office
365 Commercial. • Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage increased 2 points to
72%. Excluding the impact of the change in accounting estimate, Microsoft Cloud
gross margin percentage decreased slightly driven by a decline in Azure and
other cloud services and sales mix shift to Azure and other cloud services,
offset in part by improvement in Office 365 Commercial. Microsoft Cloud gross
margin percentage increased 2 points to 72%. Excluding the impact of the change
in accounting estimate, Microsoft Cloud gross margin percentage decreased
slightly driven by a decline in Azure and other cloud services and sales mix
shift to Azure and other cloud services, offset in part by improvement in Office
365 Commercial. Operating expenses increased $5. 3 billion or 10% driven by
employee severance expenses, 2 points of growth from the Nuance and Xandr
acquisitions, investments in cloud engineering, and LinkedIn. Operating expenses
increased $5. 3 billion or 10% driven by employee severance expenses, 2 points
of growth from the Nuance and Xandr acquisitions, investments in cloud
engineering, and LinkedIn. Operating income increased $5. 1 billion or 6% driven
by growth in Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud and the
change in accounting estimate, offset in part by a decline in More Personal
Computing. Operating income increased $5. 1 billion or 6% driven by growth in
Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud and the change in
accounting estimate, offset in part by a decline in More Personal Computing.
Revenue, gross margin, and operating income included an unfavorable foreign
currency impact of 4%, 4%, and 6%, respectively. Cost of revenue and operating
expenses both included a favorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Revenue, gross
margin, and operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of
4%, 4%, and 6%, respectively. Cost of revenue and operating expenses both
included a favorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Current year gross margin,
operating income, net income, and diluted EPS were negatively impacted by the Q2
charge, which resulted in decreases of $152 million, $1. 2 billion, $946
million, and $0. 13, respectively. Prior year net income and diluted EPS were
positively impacted by the net tax benefit related to the transfer of intangible
properties, which resulted in an increase to net income and diluted EPS of $3. 3
billion and $0. 44, respectively. Current year gross margin, operating income,
net income, and diluted EPS were negatively impacted by the Q2 charge, which
resulted in decreases of $152 million, $1. 2 billion, $946 million, and $0. 13,
respectively. Prior year net income and diluted EPS were positively impacted by
the net tax benefit related to the transfer of intangible properties, which
resulted in an increase to net income and diluted EPS of $3. 3 billion and $0.
44, respectively. 44 44 PART II PART II Item 7 Item 7 SEGMENT RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Reportable Segments Reportable Segments
Fiscal Year 2023 Compared with Fiscal Year 2022 Fiscal Year 2023 Compared with
Fiscal Year 2022 Productivity and Business Processes Productivity and Business
Processes Revenue increased $5. 9 billion or 9%. Revenue increased $5. 9 billion
or 9%. •Office Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased $3. 7
billion or 10%. Office 365 Commercial revenue grew 13% with seat growth of 11%,
driven by small and medium business and frontline worker offerings, as well as
growth in revenue per user. Office Commercial products revenue declined 21%
driven by continued customer shift to cloud offerings. • Office Commercial
products and cloud services revenue increased $3. 7 billion or 10%. Office 365
Commercial revenue grew 13% with seat growth of 11%, driven by small and medium
business and frontline worker offerings, as well as growth in revenue per user.
Office Commercial products revenue declined 21% driven by continued customer
shift to cloud offerings. Office Commercial products and cloud services revenue
increased $3. 7 billion or 10%. Office 365 Commercial revenue grew 13% with seat
growth of 11%, driven by small and medium business and frontline worker
offerings, as well as growth in revenue per user. Office Commercial products
revenue declined 21% driven by continued customer shift to cloud offerings.
•Office Consumer products and cloud services revenue increased $140 million or
2%. Microsoft 365 Consumer subscribers grew 12% to 67. 0 million. • Office
Consumer products and cloud services revenue increased $140 million or 2%.
Microsoft 365 Consumer subscribers grew 12% to 67. 0 million. Office Consumer
products and cloud services revenue increased $140 million or 2%. Microsoft 365
Consumer subscribers grew 12% to 67. 0 million. •LinkedIn revenue increased $1.
3 billion or 10% driven by Talent Solutions. • LinkedIn revenue increased $1. 3
billion or 10% driven by Talent Solutions. LinkedIn revenue increased $1. 3
billion or 10% driven by Talent Solutions. •Dynamics products and cloud services
revenue increased $750 million or 16% driven by Dynamics 365 growth of 24%. •
Dynamics products and cloud services revenue increased $750 million or 16%
driven by Dynamics 365 growth of 24%. Dynamics products and cloud services
revenue increased $750 million or 16% driven by Dynamics 365 growth of 24%.
Operating income increased $4. 5 billion or 15%. Operating income increased $4.
5 billion or 15%. •Gross margin increased $5. 8 billion or 12% driven by growth
in Office 365 Commercial and LinkedIn, as well as the change in accounting
estimate. Gross margin percentage increased. Excluding the impact of the change
in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage increased slightly driven by
improvement in Office 365 Commercial, offset in part by sales mix shift to cloud
offerings. • Gross margin increased $5. 8 billion or 12% driven by growth in
Office 365 Commercial and LinkedIn, as well as the change in accounting
estimate. Gross margin percentage increased. Excluding the impact of the change
in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage increased slightly driven by
improvement in Office 365 Commercial, offset in part by sales mix shift to cloud
offerings. Gross margin increased $5. 8 billion or 12% driven by growth in
Office 365 Commercial and LinkedIn, as well as the change in accounting
estimate. Gross margin percentage increased. Excluding the impact of the change
in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage increased slightly driven by
improvement in Office 365 Commercial, offset in part by sales mix shift to cloud
offerings. •Operating expenses increased $1. 3 billion or 7% driven by
investment in LinkedIn and employee severance expenses. • Operating expenses
increased $1. 3 billion or 7% driven by investment in LinkedIn and employee
severance expenses. Operating expenses increased $1. 3 billion or 7% driven by
investment in LinkedIn and employee severance expenses. Revenue, gross margin,
and operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 5%, 5%,
and 8%, respectively. Revenue, gross margin, and operating income included an
unfavorable foreign currency impact of 5%, 5%, and 8%, respectively. Intelligent
Cloud Intelligent Cloud Revenue increased $12. 9 billion or 17%. Revenue
increased $12. 9 billion or 17%. •Server products and cloud services revenue
increased $12. 6 billion or 19% driven by Azure and other cloud services. Azure
and other cloud services revenue grew 29% driven by growth in our consumption-
based services. Server products revenue decreased 1%. • Server products and
cloud services revenue increased $12. 6 billion or 19% driven by Azure and other
cloud services. Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 29% driven by growth
in our consumption-based services. Server products revenue decreased 1%. Server
products and cloud services revenue increased $12. 6 billion or 19% driven by
Azure and other cloud services. Azure and other cloud services revenue grew 29%
driven by growth in our consumption-based services. Server products revenue
decreased 1%. •Enterprise Services revenue increased $315 million or 4% driven
by growth in Enterprise Support Services, offset in part by a decline in
Industry Solutions (formerly Microsoft Consulting Services). • Enterprise
Services revenue increased $315 million or 4% driven by growth in Enterprise
Support Services, offset in part by a decline in Industry Solutions (formerly
Microsoft Consulting Services). Enterprise Services revenue increased $315
million or 4% driven by growth in Enterprise Support Services, offset in part by
a decline in Industry Solutions (formerly Microsoft Consulting Services). 45 45
PART II PART II Item 7 Item 7 Operating income increased $4. 7 billion or 14%.
Operating income increased $4. 7 billion or 14%. •Gross margin increased $8. 9
billion or 17% driven by growth in Azure and other cloud services and the change
in accounting estimate. Gross margin percentage decreased slightly. Excluding
the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage
decreased 3 points driven by sales mix shift to Azure and other cloud services
and a decline in Azure and other cloud services. • Gross margin increased $8. 9
billion or 17% driven by growth in Azure and other cloud services and the change
in accounting estimate. Gross margin percentage decreased slightly. Excluding
the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage
decreased 3 points driven by sales mix shift to Azure and other cloud services
and a decline in Azure and other cloud services. Gross margin increased $8. 9
billion or 17% driven by growth in Azure and other cloud services and the change
in accounting estimate. Gross margin percentage decreased slightly. Excluding
the impact of the change in accounting estimate, gross margin percentage
decreased 3 points driven by sales mix shift to Azure and other cloud services
and a decline in Azure and other cloud services. •Operating expenses increased
$4. 2 billion or 21% driven by investments in Azure, 4 points of growth from the
Nuance acquisition, and employee severance expenses. • Operating expenses
increased $4. 2 billion or 21% driven by investments in Azure, 4 points of
growth from the Nuance acquisition, and employee severance expenses. Operating
expenses increased $4. 2 billion or 21% driven by investments in Azure, 4 points
of growth from the Nuance acquisition, and employee severance expenses. Revenue,
gross margin, and operating income included an unfavorable foreign currency
impact of 4%, 4%, and 6%, respectively. Operating expenses included a favorable
foreign currency impact of 2%. Revenue, gross margin, and operating income
included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 4%, 4%, and 6%, respectively.
Operating expenses included a favorable foreign currency impact of 2%. More
Personal Computing More Personal Computing Revenue decreased $5. 2 billion or
9%. Revenue decreased $5. 2 billion or 9%. •Windows revenue decreased $3. 2
billion or 13% driven by a decrease in Windows OEM. Windows OEM revenue
decreased 25% as elevated channel inventory levels continued to drive additional
weakness beyond declining PC demand. Windows Commercial products and cloud
services revenue increased 5% driven by demand for Microsoft 365. • Windows
revenue decreased $3. 2 billion or 13% driven by a decrease in Windows OEM.
Windows OEM revenue decreased 25% as elevated channel inventory levels continued
to drive additional weakness beyond declining PC demand. Windows Commercial
products and cloud services revenue increased 5% driven by demand for Microsoft
365. Windows revenue decreased $3. 2 billion or 13% driven by a decrease in
Windows OEM. Windows OEM revenue decreased 25% as elevated channel inventory
levels continued to drive additional weakness beyond declining PC demand.
Windows Commercial products and cloud services revenue increased 5% driven by
demand for Microsoft 365. •Devices revenue decreased $1. 8 billion or 24% as
elevated channel inventory levels continued to drive additional weakness beyond
declining PC demand. • Devices revenue decreased $1. 8 billion or 24% as
elevated channel inventory levels continued to drive additional weakness beyond
declining PC demand. Devices revenue decreased $1. 8 billion or 24% as elevated
channel inventory levels continued to drive additional weakness beyond declining
PC demand. •Gaming revenue decreased $764 million or 5% driven by declines in
Xbox hardware and Xbox content and services. Xbox hardware revenue decreased 11%
driven by lower volume and price of consoles sold. Xbox content and services
revenue decreased 3% driven by a decline in first-party content, offset in part
by growth in Xbox Game Pass. • Gaming revenue decreased $764 million or 5%
driven by declines in Xbox hardware and Xbox content and services. Xbox hardware
revenue decreased 11% driven by lower volume and price of consoles sold. Xbox
content and services revenue decreased 3% driven by a decline in first-party
content, offset in part by growth in Xbox Game Pass. Gaming revenue decreased
$764 million or 5% driven by declines in Xbox hardware and Xbox content and
services. Xbox hardware revenue decreased 11% driven by lower volume and price
of consoles sold. Xbox content and services revenue decreased 3% driven by a
decline in first-party content, offset in part by growth in Xbox Game Pass.
•Search and news advertising revenue increased $617 million or 5%. Search and
news advertising revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs increased 11%
driven by higher search volume and the Xandr acquisition. • Search and news
advertising revenue increased $617 million or 5%. Search and news advertising
revenue excluding traffic acquisition costs increased 11% driven by higher
search volume and the Xandr acquisition. Search and news advertising revenue
increased $617 million or 5%. Search and news advertising revenue excluding
traffic acquisition costs increased 11% driven by higher search volume and the
Xandr acquisition. Operating income decreased $4. 0 billion or 20%. Operating
income decreased $4. 0 billion or 20%. •Gross margin decreased $4. 2 billion or
13% driven by declines in Windows and Devices. Gross margin percentage decreased
driven by a decline in Devices. • Gross margin decreased $4. 2 billion or 13%
driven by declines in Windows and Devices. Gross margin percentage decreased
driven by a decline in Devices. Gross margin decreased $4. 2 billion or 13%
driven by declines in Windows and Devices. Gross margin percentage decreased
driven by a decline in Devices. •Operating expenses decreased $195 million or 2%
driven by a decline in Devices, offset in part by investments in Search and news
advertising, including 2 points of growth from the Xandr acquisition. •
Operating expenses decreased $195 million or 2% driven by a decline in Devices,
offset in part by investments in Search and news advertising, including 2 points
of growth from the Xandr acquisition. Operating expenses decreased $195 million
or 2% driven by a decline in Devices, offset in part by investments in Search
and news advertising, including 2 points of growth from the Xandr acquisition.
Revenue, gross margin, and operating income included an unfavorable foreign
currency impact of 3%, 4%, and 6%, respectively. Operating expenses included a
favorable foreign currency impact of 2%. Revenue, gross margin, and operating
income included an unfavorable foreign currency impact of 3%, 4%, and 6%,
respectively. Operating expenses included a favorable foreign currency impact of
2%. 46 46 PART II PART II Item 7 Item 7 OPERATING EXPENSES OPERATING EXPENSES
Research and Development Research and Development Research and development
expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense,
and other headcount-related expenses associated with product development.
Research and development expenses also include third-party development and
programming costs and the amortization of purchased software code and services
content. Research and development expenses include payroll, employee benefits,
stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related expenses
associated with product development. Research and development expenses also
include third-party development and programming costs and the amortization of
purchased software code and services content. Fiscal Year 2023 Compared with
Fiscal Year 2022 Fiscal Year 2023 Compared with Fiscal Year 2022 Research and
development expenses increased $2. 7 billion or 11% driven by investments in
cloud engineering and LinkedIn. Research and development expenses increased $2.
7 billion or 11% driven by investments in cloud engineering and LinkedIn. Sales
and Marketing Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses include payroll,
employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense, and other headcount-related
expenses associated with sales and marketing personnel, and the costs of
advertising, promotions, trade shows, seminars, and other programs. Sales and
marketing expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation
expense, and other headcount-related expenses associated with sales and
marketing personnel, and the costs of advertising, promotions, trade shows,
seminars, and other programs. Fiscal Year 2023 Compared with Fiscal Year 2022
Fiscal Year 2023 Compared with Fiscal Year 2022 Sales and marketing expenses
increased $934 million or 4% driven by 3 points of growth from the Nuance and
Xandr acquisitions and investments in commercial sales, offset in part by a
decline in Windows advertising. Sales and marketing included a favorable foreign
currency impact of 2%. Sales and marketing expenses increased $934 million or 4%
driven by 3 points of growth from the Nuance and Xandr acquisitions and
investments in commercial sales, offset in part by a decline in Windows
advertising. Sales and marketing included a favorable foreign currency impact of
2%. General and Administrative General and Administrative General and
administrative expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based
compensation expense, employee severance expense incurred as part of a corporate
program, and other headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal,
facilities, certain human resources and other administrative personnel, certain
taxes, and legal and other administrative fees. General and administrative
expenses include payroll, employee benefits, stock-based compensation expense,
employee severance expense incurred as part of a corporate program, and other
headcount-related expenses associated with finance, legal, facilities, certain
human resources and other administrative personnel, certain taxes, and legal and
other administrative fees. Fiscal Year 2023 Compared with Fiscal Year 2022
Fiscal Year 2023 Compared with Fiscal Year 2022 General and administrative
expenses increased $1. 7 billion or 28% driven by employee severance expenses
and a charge related to a non-public preliminary draft decision provided by the
Irish Data Protection Commission. General and administrative included a
favorable foreign currency impact of 2%. General and administrative expenses
increased $1. 7 billion or 28% driven by employee severance expenses and a
charge related to a non-public preliminary draft decision provided by the Irish
Data Protection Commission. General and administrative included a favorable
foreign currency impact of 2%. 47 47 PART II PART II Item 7 Item 7 OTHER INCOME
(EXPENSE), NET OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET The components of other income
(expense), net were as follows: The components of other income (expense), net
were as follows: We use derivative instruments to manage risks related to
foreign currencies, equity prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance
investment returns; and facilitate portfolio diversification. Gains and losses
from changes in fair values of derivatives that are not designated as hedging
instruments are primarily recognized in other income (expense), net. We use
derivative instruments to manage risks related to foreign currencies, equity
prices, interest rates, and credit; enhance investment returns; and facilitate
portfolio diversification. Gains and losses from changes in fair values of
derivatives that are not designated as hedging instruments are primarily
recognized in other income (expense), net. Fiscal Year 2023 Compared with Fiscal
Year 2022 Fiscal Year 2023 Compared with Fiscal Year 2022 Interest and dividends
income increased due to higher yields, offset in part by lower portfolio
balances. Interest expense decreased due to a decrease in outstanding long-term
debt due to debt maturities. Net recognized gains on investments decreased due
to lower gains on equity securities and higher losses on fixed income
securities. Net losses on derivatives increased due to losses related to
managing strategic investments. Interest and dividends income increased due to
higher yields, offset in part by lower portfolio balances. Interest expense
decreased due to a decrease in outstanding long-term debt due to debt
maturities. Net recognized gains on investments decreased due to lower gains on
equity securities and higher losses on fixed income securities. Net losses on
derivatives increased due to losses related to managing strategic investments.
INCOME TAXES INCOME TAXES Effective Tax Rate Effective Tax Rate Our effective
tax rate for fiscal years 2023 and 2022 was 19% and 13%, respectively. The
increase in our effective tax rate was primarily due to a $3. 3 billion net
income tax benefit in the first quarter of fiscal year 2022 related to the
transfer of intangible properties and a decrease in tax benefits relating to
stock-based compensation. Our effective tax rate for fiscal years 2023 and 2022
was 19% and 13%, respectively. The increase in our effective tax rate was
primarily due to a $3. 3 billion net income tax benefit in the first quarter of
fiscal year 2022 related to the transfer of intangible properties and a decrease
in tax benefits relating to stock-based compensation. In the first quarter of
fiscal year 2022, we transferred certain intangible properties from our Puerto
Rico subsidiary to the U. S. The transfer of intangible properties resulted in a
$3. 3 billion net income tax benefit in the first quarter of fiscal year 2022,
as the value of future U. S. tax deductions exceeded the current tax liability
from the U. S. global intangible low-taxed income tax. In the first quarter of
fiscal year 2022, we transferred certain intangible properties from our Puerto
Rico subsidiary to the U. S. The transfer of intangible properties resulted in a
$3. 3 billion net income tax benefit in the first quarter of fiscal year 2022,
as the value of future U. S. tax deductions exceeded the current tax liability
from the U. S. global intangible low-taxed income tax. Our effective tax rate
was lower than the U. S. federal statutory rate, primarily due to earnings taxed
at lower rates in foreign jurisdictions resulting from producing and
distributing our products and services through our foreign regional operations
center in Ireland. Our effective tax rate was lower than the U. S. federal
statutory rate, primarily due to earnings taxed at lower rates in foreign
jurisdictions resulting from producing and distributing our products and
services through our foreign regional operations center in Ireland. The mix of
income before income taxes between the U. S. and foreign countries impacted our
effective tax rate as a result of the geographic distribution of, and customer
demand for, our products and services. In fiscal year 2023, our U. S. income
before income taxes was $52. 9 billion and our foreign income before income
taxes was $36. 4 billion. In fiscal year 2022, our U. S. income before income
taxes was $47. 8 billion and our foreign income before income taxes was $35. 9
billion. The mix of income before income taxes between the U. S. and foreign
countries impacted our effective tax rate as a result of the geographic
distribution of, and customer demand for, our products and services. In fiscal
year 2023, our U. S. income before income taxes was $52. 9 billion and our
foreign income before income taxes was $36. 4 billion. In fiscal year 2022, our
U. S. income before income taxes was $47. 8 billion and our foreign income
before income taxes was $35. 9 billion. Uncertain Tax Positions Uncertain Tax
Positions We settled a portion of the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) audit for
tax years 2004 to 2006 in fiscal year 2011. In February 2012, the IRS withdrew
its 2011 Revenue Agents Report related to unresolved issues for tax years 2004
to 2006 and reopened the audit phase of the examination. We also settled a
portion of the IRS audit for tax years 2007 to 2009 in fiscal year 2016, and a
portion of the IRS audit for tax years 2010 to 2013 in fiscal year 2018. In the
second quarter of fiscal year 2021, we settled an additional portion of the IRS
audits for tax years 2004 to 2013 and made a payment of $1. 7 billion, including
tax and interest. We remain under audit for tax years 2004 to 2017. We settled a
portion of the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) audit for tax years 2004 to 2006
in fiscal year 2011. In February 2012, the IRS withdrew its 2011 Revenue Agents
Report related to unresolved issues for tax years 2004 to 2006 and reopened the
audit phase of the examination. We also settled a portion of the IRS audit for
tax years 2007 to 2009 in fiscal year 2016, and a portion of the IRS audit for
tax years 2010 to 2013 in fiscal year 2018. In the second quarter of fiscal year
2021, we settled an additional portion of the IRS audits for tax years 2004 to
2013 and made a payment of $1. 7 billion, including tax and interest. We remain
under audit for tax years 2004 to 2017. 48 48 PART II PART II Item 7 Item 7 As
of June 30, 2023, the primary unresolved issues for the IRS audits relate to
transfer pricing, which could have a material impact in our consolidated
financial statements when the matters are resolved. We believe our allowances
for income tax contingencies are adequate. We have not received a proposed
assessment for the unresolved key transfer pricing issues. We do not expect a
final resolution of these issues in the next 12 months. Based on the information
currently available, we do not anticipate a significant increase or decrease to
our tax contingencies for these issues within the next 12 months. As of June 30,
2023, the primary unresolved issues for the IRS audits relate to transfer
pricing, which could have a material impact in our consolidated financial
statements when the matters are resolved. We believe our allowances for income
tax contingencies are adequate. We have not received a proposed assessment for
the unresolved key transfer pricing issues. We do not expect a final resolution
of these issues in the next 12 months. Based on the information currently
available, we do not anticipate a significant increase or decrease to our tax
contingencies for these issues within the next 12 months. We are subject to
income tax in many jurisdictions outside the U. S. Our operations in certain
jurisdictions remain subject to examination for tax years 1996 to 2022, some of
which are currently under audit by local tax authorities. The resolution of each
of these audits is not expected to be material to our consolidated financial
statements. We are subject to income tax in many jurisdictions outside the U. S.
Our operations in certain jurisdictions remain subject to examination for tax
years 1996 to 2022, some of which are currently under audit by local tax
authorities. The resolution of each of these audits is not expected to be
material to our consolidated financial statements. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES Adjusted gross margin, operating income, net income,
and diluted EPS are non-GAAP financial measures. Current year non-GAAP financial
measures exclude the impact of the Q2 charge, which includes employee severance
expenses, impairment charges resulting from changes to our hardware portfolio,
and costs related to lease consolidation activities. Prior year non-GAAP
financial measures exclude the net income tax benefit related to transfer of
intangible properties in the first quarter of fiscal year 2022. We believe these
non-GAAP measures aid investors by providing additional insight into our
operational performance and help clarify trends affecting our business. For
comparability of reporting, management considers non-GAAP measures in
conjunction with GAAP financial results in evaluating business performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures presented should not be considered a
substitute for, or superior to, the measures of financial performance prepared
in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted gross margin, operating income, net income,
and diluted EPS are non-GAAP financial measures. Current year non-GAAP financial
measures exclude the impact of the Q2 charge, which includes employee severance
expenses, impairment charges resulting from changes to our hardware portfolio,
and costs related to lease consolidation activities. Prior year non-GAAP
financial measures exclude the net income tax benefit related to transfer of
intangible properties in the first quarter of fiscal year 2022. We believe these
non-GAAP measures aid investors by providing additional insight into our
operational performance and help clarify trends affecting our business. For
comparability of reporting, management considers non-GAAP measures in
conjunction with GAAP financial results in evaluating business performance.
These non-GAAP financial measures presented should not be considered a
substitute for, or superior to, the measures of financial performance prepared
in accordance with GAAP. The following table reconciles our financial results
reported in accordance with GAAP to non-GAAP financial results: The following
table reconciles our financial results reported in accordance with GAAP to non-
GAAP financial results: * Not meaningful. * Not meaningful. 49 49 PART II PART
II Item 7 Item 7 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
We expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash flows
from operations, and access to capital markets to continue to be sufficient to
fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing
activities, such as dividends, share repurchases, debt maturities, material
capital expenditures, and the transition tax related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs
Act (“TCJA”), for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the foreseeable
future. We expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash
flows from operations, and access to capital markets to continue to be
sufficient to fund our operating activities and cash commitments for investing
and financing activities, such as dividends, share repurchases, debt maturities,
material capital expenditures, and the transition tax related to the Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act (“TCJA”), for at least the next 12 months and thereafter for the
foreseeable future. Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Investments Cash, Cash
Equivalents, and Investments Cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments
totaled $111. 3 billion and $104. 8 billion as of June 30, 2023 and 2022,
respectively. Equity investments were $9. 9 billion and $6. 9 billion as of June
30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our short-term investments are primarily
intended to facilitate liquidity and capital preservation. They consist
predominantly of highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities,
diversified among industries and individual issuers. The investments are
predominantly U. S. dollar-denominated securities, but also include foreign
currency-denominated securities to diversify risk. Our fixed-income investments
are exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk. The credit risk and average
maturity of our fixed-income portfolio are managed to achieve economic returns
that correlate to certain fixed-income indices. The settlement risk related to
these investments is insignificant given that the short-term investments held
are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities. Cash, cash
equivalents, and short-term investments totaled $111. 3 billion and $104. 8
billion as of June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Equity investments were $9.
9 billion and $6. 9 billion as of June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our
short-term investments are primarily intended to facilitate liquidity and
capital preservation. They consist predominantly of highly liquid investment-
grade fixed-income securities, diversified among industries and individual
issuers. The investments are predominantly U. S. dollar-denominated securities,
but also include foreign currency-denominated securities to diversify risk. Our
fixed-income investments are exposed to interest rate risk and credit risk. The
credit risk and average maturity of our fixed-income portfolio are managed to
achieve economic returns that correlate to certain fixed-income indices. The
settlement risk related to these investments is insignificant given that the
short-term investments held are primarily highly liquid investment-grade fixed-
income securities. Valuation Valuation In general, and where applicable, we use
quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine
the fair value of our financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies to
our Level 1 investments, such as U. S. government securities, common and
preferred stock, and mutual funds. If quoted prices in active markets for
identical assets or liabilities are not available to determine fair value, then
we use quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities or inputs other than the
quoted prices that are observable either directly or indirectly. This pricing
methodology applies to our Level 2 investments, such as commercial paper,
certificates of deposit, U. S. agency securities, foreign government bonds,
mortgage- and asset-backed securities, corporate notes and bonds, and municipal
securities. Level 3 investments are valued using internally-developed models
with unobservable inputs. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
recurring basis using unobservable inputs are an immaterial portion of our
portfolio. In general, and where applicable, we use quoted prices in active
markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine the fair value of our
financial instruments. This pricing methodology applies to our Level 1
investments, such as U. S. government securities, common and preferred stock,
and mutual funds. If quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or
liabilities are not available to determine fair value, then we use quoted prices
for similar assets and liabilities or inputs other than the quoted prices that
are observable either directly or indirectly. This pricing methodology applies
to our Level 2 investments, such as commercial paper, certificates of deposit,
U. S. agency securities, foreign government bonds, mortgage- and asset-backed
securities, corporate notes and bonds, and municipal securities. Level 3
investments are valued using internally-developed models with unobservable
inputs. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using
unobservable inputs are an immaterial portion of our portfolio. A majority of
our investments are priced by pricing vendors and are generally Level 1 or Level
2 investments as these vendors either provide a quoted market price in an active
market or use observable inputs for their pricing without applying significant
adjustments. Broker pricing is used mainly when a quoted price is not available,
the investment is not priced by our pricing vendors, or when a broker price is
more reflective of fair values in the market in which the investment trades. Our
broker-priced investments are generally classified as Level 2 investments
because the broker prices these investments based on similar assets without
applying significant adjustments. In addition, all our broker-priced investments
have a sufficient level of trading volume to demonstrate that the fair values
used are appropriate for these investments. Our fair value processes include
controls that are designed to ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These
controls include model validation, review of key model inputs, analysis of
period-over-period fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where
appropriate. A majority of our investments are priced by pricing vendors and are
generally Level 1 or Level 2 investments as these vendors either provide a
quoted market price in an active market or use observable inputs for their
pricing without applying significant adjustments. Broker pricing is used mainly
when a quoted price is not available, the investment is not priced by our
pricing vendors, or when a broker price is more reflective of fair values in the
market in which the investment trades. Our broker-priced investments are
generally classified as Level 2 investments because the broker prices these
investments based on similar assets without applying significant adjustments. In
addition, all our broker-priced investments have a sufficient level of trading
volume to demonstrate that the fair values used are appropriate for these
investments. Our fair value processes include controls that are designed to
ensure appropriate fair values are recorded. These controls include model
validation, review of key model inputs, analysis of period-over-period
fluctuations, and independent recalculation of prices where appropriate. Cash
Flows Cash Flows Cash from operations decreased $1. 5 billion to $87. 6 billion
for fiscal year 2023, mainly due to an increase in cash paid to employees and
suppliers and cash used to pay income taxes, offset in part by an increase in
cash received from customers. Cash used in financing decreased $14. 9 billion to
$43. 9 billion for fiscal year 2023, mainly due to a $10. 5 billion decrease in
common stock repurchases and a $6. 3 billion decrease in repayments of debt,
offset in part by a $1. 7 billion increase in dividends paid. Cash used in
investing decreased $7. 6 billion to $22. 7 billion for fiscal year 2023, due to
a $20. 4 billion decrease in cash used for acquisitions of companies, net of
cash acquired, and purchases of intangible and other assets, offset in part by a
$8. 2 billion decrease in cash from net investment purchases, sales, and
maturities, and a $4. 2 billion increase in additions to property and equipment.
Cash from operations decreased $1. 5 billion to $87. 6 billion for fiscal year
2023, mainly due to an increase in cash paid to employees and suppliers and cash
used to pay income taxes, offset in part by an increase in cash received from
customers. Cash used in financing decreased $14. 9 billion to $43. 9 billion for
fiscal year 2023, mainly due to a $10. 5 billion decrease in common stock
repurchases and a $6. 3 billion decrease in repayments of debt, offset in part
by a $1. 7 billion increase in dividends paid. Cash used in investing decreased
$7. 6 billion to $22. 7 billion for fiscal year 2023, due to a $20. 4 billion
decrease in cash used for acquisitions of companies, net of cash acquired, and
purchases of intangible and other assets, offset in part by a $8. 2 billion
decrease in cash from net investment purchases, sales, and maturities, and a $4.
2 billion increase in additions to property and equipment. 50 50 PART II PART II
Item 7 Item 7 Debt Proceeds Debt Proceeds We issue debt to take advantage of
favorable pricing and liquidity in the debt markets, reflecting our credit
rating and the low interest rate environment. The proceeds of these issuances
were or will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include, among
other things, funding for working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases of
capital stock, acquisitions, and repayment of existing debt. Refer to Note 11 –
Debt of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K)
for further discussion. We issue debt to take advantage of favorable pricing and
liquidity in the debt markets, reflecting our credit rating and the low interest
rate environment. The proceeds of these issuances were or will be used for
general corporate purposes, which may include, among other things, funding for
working capital, capital expenditures, repurchases of capital stock,
acquisitions, and repayment of existing debt. Refer to Note 11 – Debt of the
Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further
discussion. Unearned Revenue Unearned Revenue Unearned revenue comprises mainly
unearned revenue related to volume licensing programs, which may include
Software Assurance (“SA”) and cloud services. Unearned revenue is generally
invoiced annually at the beginning of each contract period for multi-year
agreements and recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue
also includes payments for other offerings for which we have been paid in
advance and earn the revenue when we transfer control of the product or service.
Refer to Note 1 – Accounting Policies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part
II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion. Unearned revenue comprises
mainly unearned revenue related to volume licensing programs, which may include
Software Assurance (“SA”) and cloud services. Unearned revenue is generally
invoiced annually at the beginning of each contract period for multi-year
agreements and recognized ratably over the coverage period. Unearned revenue
also includes payments for other offerings for which we have been paid in
advance and earn the revenue when we transfer control of the product or service.
Refer to Note 1 – Accounting Policies of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part
II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion. The following table
outlines the expected future recognition of unearned revenue as of June 30,
2023: The following table outlines the expected future recognition of unearned
revenue as of June 30, 2023: If our customers choose to license cloud-based
versions of our products and services rather than licensing transaction-based
products and services, the associated revenue will shift from being recognized
at the time of the transaction to being recognized over the subscription period
or upon consumption, as applicable. Refer to Note 13 – Unearned Revenue of the
Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further
discussion. If our customers choose to license cloud-based versions of our
products and services rather than licensing transaction-based products and
services, the associated revenue will shift from being recognized at the time of
the transaction to being recognized over the subscription period or upon
consumption, as applicable. Refer to Note 13 – Unearned Revenue of the Notes to
Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion.
Material Cash Requirements and Other Obligations Material Cash Requirements and
Other Obligations Contractual Obligations Contractual Obligations The following
table summarizes the payments due by fiscal year for our outstanding contractual
obligations as of June 30, 2023: The following table summarizes the payments due
by fiscal year for our outstanding contractual obligations as of June 30, 2023:
(a)Refer to Note 11 – Debt of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8
of this Form 10-K). (a) Refer to Note 11 – Debt of the Notes to Financial
Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). Refer to Note 11 – Debt of the
Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). (b)Refer to
Note 7 – Property and Equipment of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II,
Item 8 of this Form 10-K). (b) Refer to Note 7 – Property and Equipment of the
Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). Refer to Note
7 – Property and Equipment of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8
of this Form 10-K). (c)Refer to Note 14 – Leases of the Notes to Financial
Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). (c) Refer to Note 14 – Leases of
the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). Refer to
Note 14 – Leases of the Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this
Form 10-K). (d)Purchase commitments primarily relate to datacenters and include
open purchase orders and take-or-pay contracts that are not presented as
construction commitments above. (d) Purchase commitments primarily relate to
datacenters and include open purchase orders and take-or-pay contracts that are
not presented as construction commitments above. Purchase commitments primarily
relate to datacenters and include open purchase orders and take-or-pay contracts
that are not presented as construction commitments above. 51 51 PART II PART II
Item 7 Item 7 Income Taxes Income Taxes As a result of the TCJA, we are required
to pay a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign income not previously
subject to U. S. income tax. Under the TCJA, the transition tax is payable in
interest-free installments over eight years, with 8% due in each of the first
five years, 15% in year six, 20% in year seven, and 25% in year eight. We have
paid transition tax of $7. 7 billion, which included $1. 5 billion for fiscal
year 2023. The remaining transition tax of $10. 5 billion is payable over the
next three years, with $2. 7 billion payable within 12 months. As a result of
the TCJA, we are required to pay a one-time transition tax on deferred foreign
income not previously subject to U. S. income tax. Under the TCJA, the
transition tax is payable in interest-free installments over eight years, with
8% due in each of the first five years, 15% in year six, 20% in year seven, and
25% in year eight. We have paid transition tax of $7. 7 billion, which included
$1. 5 billion for fiscal year 2023. The remaining transition tax of $10. 5
billion is payable over the next three years, with $2. 7 billion payable within
12 months. In fiscal year 2023, we paid cash tax of $4. 8 billion due to the
mandatory capitalization for tax purposes of research and development
expenditures enacted by the TCJA and effective on July 1, 2022. In fiscal year
2023, we paid cash tax of $4. 8 billion due to the mandatory capitalization for
tax purposes of research and development expenditures enacted by the TCJA and
effective on July 1, 2022. Share Repurchases Share Repurchases During fiscal
years 2023 and 2022, we repurchased 69 million shares and 95 million shares of
our common stock for $18. 4 billion and $28. 0 billion, respectively, through
our share repurchase programs. All repurchases were made using cash resources.
As of June 30, 2023, $22. 3 billion remained of our $60 billion share repurchase
program. Refer to Note 16 – Stockholders’ Equity of the Notes to Financial
Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion. During
fiscal years 2023 and 2022, we repurchased 69 million shares and 95 million
shares of our common stock for $18. 4 billion and $28. 0 billion, respectively,
through our share repurchase programs. All repurchases were made using cash
resources. As of June 30, 2023, $22. 3 billion remained of our $60 billion share
repurchase program. Refer to Note 16 – Stockholders’ Equity of the Notes to
Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion.
Dividends Dividends During fiscal year 2023 and 2022, our Board of Directors
declared quarterly dividends of $0. 68 per share and $0. 62 per share, totaling
$20. 2 billion and $18. 6 billion, respectively. We intend to continue returning
capital to shareholders in the form of dividends, subject to declaration by our
Board of Directors. Refer to Note 16 – Stockholders’ Equity of the Notes to
Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion.
During fiscal year 2023 and 2022, our Board of Directors declared quarterly
dividends of $0. 68 per share and $0. 62 per share, totaling $20. 2 billion and
$18. 6 billion, respectively. We intend to continue returning capital to
shareholders in the form of dividends, subject to declaration by our Board of
Directors. Refer to Note 16 – Stockholders’ Equity of the Notes to Financial
Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K) for further discussion. Other
Planned Uses of Capital Other Planned Uses of Capital On January 18, 2022, we
entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Activision Blizzard, Inc.
(“Activision Blizzard”) for $95. 00 per share in an all-cash transaction valued
at $68. 7 billion, inclusive of Activision Blizzard’s net cash. The acquisition
has been approved by Activision Blizzard’s shareholders. We continue to work
toward closing the transaction subject to obtaining required regulatory
approvals and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions. Microsoft and
Activision Blizzard have jointly agreed to extend the merger agreement through
October 18, 2023 to allow for additional time to resolve remaining regulatory
concerns. On January 18, 2022, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire
Activision Blizzard, Inc. (“Activision Blizzard”) for $95. 00 per share in an
all-cash transaction valued at $68. 7 billion, inclusive of Activision
Blizzard’s net cash. The acquisition has been approved by Activision Blizzard’s
shareholders. We continue to work toward closing the transaction subject to
obtaining required regulatory approvals and satisfaction of other customary
closing conditions. Microsoft and Activision Blizzard have jointly agreed to
extend the merger agreement through October 18, 2023 to allow for additional
time to resolve remaining regulatory concerns. We will continue to invest in
sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced
areas of technology, as well as acquisitions that align with our business
strategy. Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new
facilities, datacenters, and computer systems for research and development,
sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. We expect capital
expenditures to increase in coming years to support growth in our cloud
offerings and our investments in AI infrastructure. We have operating and
finance leases for datacenters, corporate offices, research and development
facilities, Microsoft Experience Centers, and certain equipment. We have not
engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated
entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect
liquidity or the availability of capital resources. We will continue to invest
in sales, marketing, product support infrastructure, and existing and advanced
areas of technology, as well as acquisitions that align with our business
strategy. Additions to property and equipment will continue, including new
facilities, datacenters, and computer systems for research and development,
sales and marketing, support, and administrative staff. We expect capital
expenditures to increase in coming years to support growth in our cloud
offerings and our investments in AI infrastructure. We have operating and
finance leases for datacenters, corporate offices, research and development
facilities, Microsoft Experience Centers, and certain equipment. We have not
engaged in any related party transactions or arrangements with unconsolidated
entities or other persons that are reasonably likely to materially affect
liquidity or the availability of capital resources. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING
ESTIMATES CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our consolidated financial statements
and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Preparing
consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue,
and expenses. Critical accounting estimates are those estimates that involve a
significant level of estimation uncertainty and could have a material impact on
our financial condition or results of operations. We have critical accounting
estimates in the areas of revenue recognition, impairment of investment
securities, goodwill, research and development costs, legal and other
contingencies, income taxes, and inventories. Our consolidated financial
statements and accompanying notes are prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Preparing consolidated financial statements requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenue, and expenses. Critical accounting estimates are those
estimates that involve a significant level of estimation uncertainty and could
have a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. We
have critical accounting estimates in the areas of revenue recognition,
impairment of investment securities, goodwill, research and development costs,
legal and other contingencies, income taxes, and inventories. 52 52 PART II PART
II Item 7 Item 7 Revenue Recognition Revenue Recognition Our contracts with
customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services to a
customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct
performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together
may require significant judgment. When a cloud-based service includes both on-
premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment is required to determine
whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for
separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service
and recognized over time. Certain cloud services, primarily Office 365, depend
on a significant level of integration, interdependency, and interrelation
between the desktop applications and cloud services, and are accounted for
together as one performance obligation. Revenue from Office 365 is recognized
ratably over the period in which the cloud services are provided. Our contracts
with customers often include promises to transfer multiple products and services
to a customer. Determining whether products and services are considered distinct
performance obligations that should be accounted for separately versus together
may require significant judgment. When a cloud-based service includes both on-
premises software licenses and cloud services, judgment is required to determine
whether the software license is considered distinct and accounted for
separately, or not distinct and accounted for together with the cloud service
and recognized over time. Certain cloud services, primarily Office 365, depend
on a significant level of integration, interdependency, and interrelation
between the desktop applications and cloud services, and are accounted for
together as one performance obligation. Revenue from Office 365 is recognized
ratably over the period in which the cloud services are provided. Judgment is
required to determine the stand-alone selling price (“SSP") for each distinct
performance obligation. We use a single amount to estimate SSP for items that
are not sold separately, including on-premises licenses sold with SA or software
updates provided at no additional charge. We use a range of amounts to estimate
SSP when we sell each of the products and services separately and need to
determine whether there is a discount to be allocated based on the relative SSP
of the various products and services. Judgment is required to determine the
stand-alone selling price (“SSP") for each distinct performance obligation. We
use a single amount to estimate SSP for items that are not sold separately,
including on-premises licenses sold with SA or software updates provided at no
additional charge. We use a range of amounts to estimate SSP when we sell each
of the products and services separately and need to determine whether there is a
discount to be allocated based on the relative SSP of the various products and
services. In instances where SSP is not directly observable, such as when we do
not sell the product or service separately, we determine the SSP using
information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs. We
typically have more than one SSP for individual products and services due to the
stratification of those products and services by customers and circumstances. In
these instances, we may use information such as the size of the customer and
geographic region in determining the SSP. In instances where SSP is not directly
observable, such as when we do not sell the product or service separately, we
determine the SSP using information that may include market conditions and other
observable inputs. We typically have more than one SSP for individual products
and services due to the stratification of those products and services by
customers and circumstances. In these instances, we may use information such as
the size of the customer and geographic region in determining the SSP. Due to
the various benefits from and the nature of our SA program, judgment is required
to assess the pattern of delivery, including the exercise pattern of certain
benefits across our portfolio of customers. Due to the various benefits from and
the nature of our SA program, judgment is required to assess the pattern of
delivery, including the exercise pattern of certain benefits across our
portfolio of customers. Our products are generally sold with a right of return,
we may provide other credits or incentives, and in certain instances we estimate
customer usage of our products and services, which are accounted for as variable
consideration when determining the amount of revenue to recognize. Returns and
credits are estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each
reporting period if additional information becomes available. Changes to our
estimated variable consideration were not material for the periods presented.
Our products are generally sold with a right of return, we may provide other
credits or incentives, and in certain instances we estimate customer usage of
our products and services, which are accounted for as variable consideration
when determining the amount of revenue to recognize. Returns and credits are
estimated at contract inception and updated at the end of each reporting period
if additional information becomes available. Changes to our estimated variable
consideration were not material for the periods presented. Impairment of
Investment Securities Impairment of Investment Securities We review debt
investments quarterly for credit losses and impairment. If the cost of an
investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, general
market conditions, credit quality of debt instrument issuers, and the extent to
which the fair value is less than cost. This determination requires significant
judgment. In making this judgment, we employ a systematic methodology that
considers available quantitative and qualitative evidence in evaluating
potential impairment of our investments. In addition, we consider specific
adverse conditions related to the financial health of, and business outlook for,
the investee. If we have plans to sell the security or it is more likely than
not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery, then a
decline in fair value below cost is recorded as an impairment charge in other
income (expense), net and a new cost basis in the investment is established. If
market, industry, and/or investee conditions deteriorate, we may incur future
impairments. We review debt investments quarterly for credit losses and
impairment. If the cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate,
among other factors, general market conditions, credit quality of debt
instrument issuers, and the extent to which the fair value is less than cost.
This determination requires significant judgment. In making this judgment, we
employ a systematic methodology that considers available quantitative and
qualitative evidence in evaluating potential impairment of our investments. In
addition, we consider specific adverse conditions related to the financial
health of, and business outlook for, the investee. If we have plans to sell the
security or it is more likely than not that we will be required to sell the
security before recovery, then a decline in fair value below cost is recorded as
an impairment charge in other income (expense), net and a new cost basis in the
investment is established. If market, industry, and/or investee conditions
deteriorate, we may incur future impairments. Equity investments without readily
determinable fair values are written down to fair value if a qualitative
assessment indicates that the investment is impaired and the fair value of the
investment is less than carrying value. We perform a qualitative assessment on a
periodic basis. We are required to estimate the fair value of the investment to
determine the amount of the impairment loss. Once an investment is determined to
be impaired, an impairment charge is recorded in other income (expense), net.
Equity investments without readily determinable fair values are written down to
fair value if a qualitative assessment indicates that the investment is impaired
and the fair value of the investment is less than carrying value. We perform a
qualitative assessment on a periodic basis. We are required to estimate the fair
value of the investment to determine the amount of the impairment loss. Once an
investment is determined to be impaired, an impairment charge is recorded in
other income (expense), net. 53 53 PART II PART II Item 7 Item 7 Goodwill
Goodwill We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on the reporting unit
expected to benefit from the business combination. We evaluate our reporting
units on an annual basis and, if necessary, reassign goodwill using a relative
fair value allocation approach. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the
reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an operating segment)
on an annual basis (May 1) and between annual tests if an event occurs or
circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a
reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or circumstances could
include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating
performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant
portion of a reporting unit. We allocate goodwill to reporting units based on
the reporting unit expected to benefit from the business combination. We
evaluate our reporting units on an annual basis and, if necessary, reassign
goodwill using a relative fair value allocation approach. Goodwill is tested for
impairment at the reporting unit level (operating segment or one level below an
operating segment) on an annual basis (May 1) and between annual tests if an
event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the
fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. These events or
circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal
factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition
of a significant portion of a reporting unit. Application of the goodwill
impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting
units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of
goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each
reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated primarily
through the use of a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis requires
significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which is
dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth for
our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will occur,
and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. Application of the
goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of
reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units,
assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value
of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is estimated
primarily through the use of a discounted cash flow methodology. This analysis
requires significant judgments, including estimation of future cash flows, which
is dependent on internal forecasts, estimation of the long-term rate of growth
for our business, estimation of the useful life over which cash flows will
occur, and determination of our weighted average cost of capital. The estimates
used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year
based on operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Changes in
these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of
fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. The estimates used
to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based
on operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Changes in these
estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair
value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. Research and Development
Costs Research and Development Costs Costs incurred internally in researching
and developing a computer software product are charged to expense until
technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once
technological feasibility is established, software costs are capitalized until
the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required
in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. We
have determined that technological feasibility for our software products is
reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding
and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to
production. The amortization of these costs is included in cost of revenue over
the estimated life of the products. Costs incurred internally in researching and
developing a computer software product are charged to expense until
technological feasibility has been established for the product. Once
technological feasibility is established, software costs are capitalized until
the product is available for general release to customers. Judgment is required
in determining when technological feasibility of a product is established. We
have determined that technological feasibility for our software products is
reached after all high-risk development issues have been resolved through coding
and testing. Generally, this occurs shortly before the products are released to
production. The amortization of these costs is included in cost of revenue over
the estimated life of the products. Legal and Other Contingencies Legal and
Other Contingencies The outcomes of legal proceedings and claims brought against
us are subject to significant uncertainty. An estimated loss from a loss
contingency such as a legal proceeding or claim is accrued by a charge to income
if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a liability has been
incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. In determining
whether a loss should be accrued we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of
probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable
estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these factors could materially impact
our consolidated financial statements. The outcomes of legal proceedings and
claims brought against us are subject to significant uncertainty. An estimated
loss from a loss contingency such as a legal proceeding or claim is accrued by a
charge to income if it is probable that an asset has been impaired or a
liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably
estimated. In determining whether a loss should be accrued we evaluate, among
other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the
ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these
factors could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. 54 54
PART II PART II Item 7 Item 7 Income Taxes Income Taxes The objectives of
accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or
refundable for the current year, and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the
future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entity’s
financial statements or tax returns. We recognize the tax benefit from an
uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position
will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the
technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial
statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that
has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement.
Accounting literature also provides guidance on derecognition of income tax
assets and liabilities, classification of deferred income tax assets and
liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties associated with tax
positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment is required in assessing the
future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our consolidated
financial statements or tax returns. Variations in the actual outcome of these
future tax consequences could materially impact our consolidated financial
statements. The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the
amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year, and deferred tax
liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been
recognized in an entity’s financial statements or tax returns. We recognize the
tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not
that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing
authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits
recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based
on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized
upon ultimate settlement. Accounting literature also provides guidance on
derecognition of income tax assets and liabilities, classification of deferred
income tax assets and liabilities, accounting for interest and penalties
associated with tax positions, and income tax disclosures. Judgment is required
in assessing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in
our consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Variations in the actual
outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact our
consolidated financial statements. Inventories Inventories Inventories are
stated at average cost, subject to the lower of cost or net realizable value.
Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead related to the
purchase and production of inventories. Net realizable value is the estimated
selling price less estimated costs of completion, disposal, and transportation.
We regularly review inventory quantities on hand, future purchase commitments
with our suppliers, and the estimated utility of our inventory. These reviews
include analysis of demand forecasts, product life cycle status, product
development plans, current sales levels, pricing strategy, and component cost
trends. If our review indicates a reduction in utility below carrying value, we
reduce our inventory to a new cost basis through a charge to cost of revenue.
Inventories are stated at average cost, subject to the lower of cost or net
realizable value. Cost includes materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead
related to the purchase and production of inventories. Net realizable value is
the estimated selling price less estimated costs of completion, disposal, and
transportation. We regularly review inventory quantities on hand, future
purchase commitments with our suppliers, and the estimated utility of our
inventory. These reviews include analysis of demand forecasts, product life
cycle status, product development plans, current sales levels, pricing strategy,
and component cost trends. If our review indicates a reduction in utility below
carrying value, we reduce our inventory to a new cost basis through a charge to
cost of revenue. 55 55 PART II PART II Item 7 Item 7 STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENT’S
RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY
FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Management is responsible for the preparation of the
consolidated financial statements and related information that are presented in
this report. The consolidated financial statements, which include amounts based
on management’s estimates and judgments, have been prepared in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Management is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial
statements and related information that are presented in this report. The
consolidated financial statements, which include amounts based on management’s
estimates and judgments, have been prepared in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The Company
designs and maintains accounting and internal control systems to provide
reasonable assurance at reasonable cost that assets are safeguarded against loss
from unauthorized use or disposition, and that the financial records are
reliable for preparing consolidated financial statements and maintaining
accountability for assets. These systems are augmented by written policies, an
organizational structure providing division of responsibilities, careful
selection and training of qualified personnel, and a program of internal audits.
The Company designs and maintains accounting and internal control systems to
provide reasonable assurance at reasonable cost that assets are safeguarded
against loss from unauthorized use or disposition, and that the financial
records are reliable for preparing consolidated financial statements and
maintaining accountability for assets. These systems are augmented by written
policies, an organizational structure providing division of responsibilities,
careful selection and training of qualified personnel, and a program of internal
audits. The Company engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, to audit and render an opinion on the consolidated
financial statements and internal control over financial reporting in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). The Company engaged Deloitte & Touche LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm, to audit and render an opinion on the consolidated
financial statements and internal control over financial reporting in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). The Board of Directors, through its Audit Committee, consisting solely
of independent directors of the Company, meets periodically with management,
internal auditors, and our independent registered public accounting firm to
ensure that each is meeting its responsibilities and to discuss matters
concerning internal controls and financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP and
the internal auditors each have full and free access to the Audit Committee. The
Board of Directors, through its Audit Committee, consisting solely of
independent directors of the Company, meets periodically with management,
internal auditors, and our independent registered public accounting firm to
ensure that each is meeting its responsibilities and to discuss matters
concerning internal controls and financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP and
the internal auditors each have full and free access to the Audit Committee. 56
56 PART II PART II Item 7A Item 7A ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE
DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITAT IVE DISCLOSURES
ABOUT MARKET RISK RISKS RISKS We are exposed to economic risk from foreign
exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, and equity prices. We use
derivatives instruments to manage these risks, however, they may still impact
our consolidated financial statements. We are exposed to economic risk from
foreign exchange rates, interest rates, credit risk, and equity prices. We use
derivatives instruments to manage these risks, however, they may still impact
our consolidated financial statements. Foreign Currencies Foreign Currencies
Certain forecasted transactions, assets, and liabilities are exposed to foreign
currency risk. We monitor our foreign currency exposures daily to maximize the
economic effectiveness of our foreign currency positions, including hedges.
Principal currency exposures include the Euro, Japanese yen, British pound,
Canadian dollar, and Australian dollar. Certain forecasted transactions, assets,
and liabilities are exposed to foreign currency risk. We monitor our foreign
currency exposures daily to maximize the economic effectiveness of our foreign
currency positions, including hedges. Principal currency exposures include the
Euro, Japanese yen, British pound, Canadian dollar, and Australian dollar.
Interest Rate Interest Rate Securities held in our fixed-income portfolio are
subject to different interest rate risks based on their maturities. We manage
the average maturity of the fixed-income portfolio to achieve economic returns
that correlate to certain global fixed-income indices. Securities held in our
fixed-income portfolio are subject to different interest rate risks based on
their maturities. We manage the average maturity of the fixed-income portfolio
to achieve economic returns that correlate to certain global fixed-income
indices. Credit Credit Our fixed-income portfolio is diversified and consists
primarily of investment-grade securities. We manage credit exposures relative to
broad-based indices to facilitate portfolio diversification. Our fixed-income
portfolio is diversified and consists primarily of investment-grade securities.
We manage credit exposures relative to broad-based indices to facilitate
portfolio diversification. Equity Equity Securities held in our equity
investments portfolio are subject to price risk. Securities held in our equity
investments portfolio are subject to price risk. SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS The following table sets forth the potential loss in future
earnings or fair values, including associated derivatives, resulting from
hypothetical changes in relevant market rates or prices: The following table
sets forth the potential loss in future earnings or fair values, including
associated derivatives, resulting from hypothetical changes in relevant market
rates or prices: 57 57 PART II PART II Item 8 Item 8 ITEM 8. FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATE MENTS AND
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA INCOME STATEMENTS INC OME STATEMENTS Refer to accompanying
notes. Refer to accompanying notes. 58 58 PART II PART II Item 8 Item 8
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME STATEMENTS COMPREHENSIVE IN COME STATEMENTS Refer to
accompanying notes. Refer to accompanying notes. 59 59 PART II PART II Item 8
Item 8 BALANCE SHEETS BALANCE SHEETS Refer to accompanying notes. Refer to
accompanying notes. 60 60 PART II PART II Item 8 Item 8 CASH FLOWS STATEMENTS
CASH FLOWS S TATEMENTS Refer to accompanying notes. Refer to accompanying notes.
61 61 PART II PART II Item 8 Item 8 STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY STATEMENTS
STOCKHOLDERS’ EQ UITY STATEMENTS Refer to accompanying notes. Refer to
accompanying notes. 62 62 PART II PART II Item 8 Item 8 NOTES TO FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS NOTES TO FINANCI AL STATEMENTS 70 70 PART II PART II Item 8 Item 8 71
71 PART II PART II Item 8 Item 8 74 74 PART II PART II Item 8 Item 8 77 77 PART
II PART II Item 8 Item 8 85 85 PART II PART II Item 8 Item 8 87 87 PART II PART
II Item 8 Item 8 88 88 PART II PART II Item 8 Item 8 90 90 PART II PART II Item
8 Item 8 95 95 PART II PART II Item 8 Item 8 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGIST ERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Microsoft Corporation To the
Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Microsoft Corporation Opinion on the
Financial Statements Opinion on the Financial Statements We have audited the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Microsoft Corporation and
subsidiaries (the "Company") as of June 30, 2023 and 2022, the related
consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and
stockholders' equity, for each of the three years in the period ended June 30,
2023, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial
statements"). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of the Company as of June 30, 2023 and
2022, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended June 30, 2023, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We have audited
the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Microsoft Corporation and
subsidiaries (the "Company") as of June 30, 2023 and 2022, the related
consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and
stockholders' equity, for each of the three years in the period ended June 30,
2023, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the "financial
statements"). In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of the Company as of June 30, 2023 and
2022, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended June 30, 2023, in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. We have also
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the Company's internal control over
financial reporting as of June 30, 2023, based on criteria established in
Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated July
27, 2023, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control
over financial reporting. We have also audited, in accordance with the standards
of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the
Company's internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2023, based
on criteria established in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our
report dated July 27, 2023, expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's
internal control over financial reporting. Basis for Opinion Basis for Opinion
These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial
statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with
the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in
accordance with the U. S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's financial statements
based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB
and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance
with the U. S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations
of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audits
in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or
fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and
performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included
examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. We conducted our audits
in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or
fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material
misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and
performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included
examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. Critical Audit Matters
Critical Audit Matters The critical audit matters communicated below are matters
arising from the current-period audit of the financial statements that were
communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1)
relate to accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements
and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments.
The communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our
opinion on the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by
communicating the critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on
the critical audit matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they
relate. The critical audit matters communicated below are matters arising from
the current-period audit of the financial statements that were communicated or
required to be communicated to the audit committee and that (1) relate to
accounts or disclosures that are material to the financial statements and (2)
involved our especially challenging, subjective, or complex judgments. The
communication of critical audit matters does not alter in any way our opinion on
the financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the
critical audit matters below, providing separate opinions on the critical audit
matters or on the accounts or disclosures to which they relate. Revenue
Recognition – Refer to Note 1 to the financial statements Revenue Recognition –
Refer to Note 1 to the financial statements Critical Audit Matter Description
Critical Audit Matter Description The Company recognizes revenue upon transfer
of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that
reflects the consideration the Company expects to receive in exchange for those
products or services. The Company offers customers the ability to acquire
multiple licenses of software products and services, including cloud-based
services, in its customer agreements through its volume licensing programs. The
Company recognizes revenue upon transfer of control of promised products or
services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration the Company
expects to receive in exchange for those products or services. The Company
offers customers the ability to acquire multiple licenses of software products
and services, including cloud-based services, in its customer agreements through
its volume licensing programs. 96 96 PART II PART II Item 8 Item 8 Significant
judgment is exercised by the Company in determining revenue recognition for
these customer agreements, and includes the following: Significant judgment is
exercised by the Company in determining revenue recognition for these customer
agreements, and includes the following: •Determination of whether products and
services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be
accounted for separately versus together, such as software licenses and related
services that are sold with cloud-based services. • Determination of whether
products and services are considered distinct performance obligations that
should be accounted for separately versus together, such as software licenses
and related services that are sold with cloud-based services. Determination of
whether products and services are considered distinct performance obligations
that should be accounted for separately versus together, such as software
licenses and related services that are sold with cloud-based services. •The
pattern of delivery (i. e. , timing of when revenue is recognized) for each
distinct performance obligation. • The pattern of delivery (i. e. , timing of
when revenue is recognized) for each distinct performance obligation. The
pattern of delivery (i. e. , timing of when revenue is recognized) for each
distinct performance obligation. •Identification and treatment of contract terms
that may impact the timing and amount of revenue recognized (e. g. , variable
consideration, optional purchases, and free services). • Identification and
treatment of contract terms that may impact the timing and amount of revenue
recognized (e. g. , variable consideration, optional purchases, and free
services). Identification and treatment of contract terms that may impact the
timing and amount of revenue recognized (e. g. , variable consideration,
optional purchases, and free services). •Determination of stand-alone selling
prices for each distinct performance obligation and for products and services
that are not sold separately. • Determination of stand-alone selling prices for
each distinct performance obligation and for products and services that are not
sold separately. Determination of stand-alone selling prices for each distinct
performance obligation and for products and services that are not sold
separately. Given these factors and due to the volume of transactions, the
related audit effort in evaluating management's judgments in determining revenue
recognition for these customer agreements was extensive and required a high
degree of auditor judgment. Given these factors and due to the volume of
transactions, the related audit effort in evaluating management's judgments in
determining revenue recognition for these customer agreements was extensive and
required a high degree of auditor judgment. How the Critical Audit Matter Was
Addressed in the Audit How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit
Our principal audit procedures related to the Company's revenue recognition for
these customer agreements included the following: Our principal audit procedures
related to the Company's revenue recognition for these customer agreements
included the following: Income Taxes – Uncertain Tax Positions – Refer to Note
12 to the financial statements Income Taxes – Uncertain Tax Positions – Refer to
Note 12 to the financial statements Critical Audit Matter Description Critical
Audit Matter Description The Company's long-term income taxes liability includes
uncertain tax positions related to transfer pricing issues that remain
unresolved with the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"). The Company remains under
IRS audit, or subject to IRS audit, for tax years subsequent to 2003. While the
Company has settled a portion of the IRS audits, resolution of the remaining
matters could have a material impact on the Company's financial statements. The
Company's long-term income taxes liability includes uncertain tax positions
related to transfer pricing issues that remain unresolved with the Internal
Revenue Service ("IRS"). The Company remains under IRS audit, or subject to IRS
audit, for tax years subsequent to 2003. While the Company has settled a portion
of the IRS audits, resolution of the remaining matters could have a material
impact on the Company's financial statements. Conclusions on recognizing and
measuring uncertain tax positions involve significant estimates and management
judgment and include complex considerations of the Internal Revenue Code,
related regulations, tax case laws, and prior-year audit settlements. Given the
complexity and the subjective nature of the transfer pricing issues that remain
unresolved with the IRS, evaluating management's estimates relating to their
determination of uncertain tax positions required extensive audit effort and a
high degree of auditor judgment, including involvement of our tax specialists.
Conclusions on recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions involve
significant estimates and management judgment and include complex considerations
of the Internal Revenue Code, related regulations, tax case laws, and prior-year
audit settlements. Given the complexity and the subjective nature of the
transfer pricing issues that remain unresolved with the IRS, evaluating
management's estimates relating to their determination of uncertain tax
positions required extensive audit effort and a high degree of auditor judgment,
including involvement of our tax specialists. 97 97 PART II PART II Item 8 Item
8 How the Critical Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit How the Critical
Audit Matter Was Addressed in the Audit Our principal audit procedures to
evaluate management's estimates of uncertain tax positions related to unresolved
transfer pricing issues included the following: Our principal audit procedures
to evaluate management's estimates of uncertain tax positions related to
unresolved transfer pricing issues included the following: •We evaluated the
appropriateness and consistency of management's methods and assumptions used in
the identification, recognition, measurement, and disclosure of uncertain tax
positions, which included testing the effectiveness of the related internal
controls. • We evaluated the appropriateness and consistency of management's
methods and assumptions used in the identification, recognition, measurement,
and disclosure of uncertain tax positions, which included testing the
effectiveness of the related internal controls. We evaluated the appropriateness
and consistency of management's methods and assumptions used in the
identification, recognition, measurement, and disclosure of uncertain tax
positions, which included testing the effectiveness of the related internal
controls. •We read and evaluated management's documentation, including relevant
accounting policies and information obtained by management from outside tax
specialists, that detailed the basis of the uncertain tax positions. • We read
and evaluated management's documentation, including relevant accounting policies
and information obtained by management from outside tax specialists, that
detailed the basis of the uncertain tax positions. We read and evaluated
management's documentation, including relevant accounting policies and
information obtained by management from outside tax specialists, that detailed
the basis of the uncertain tax positions. •We tested the reasonableness of
management's judgments regarding the future resolution of the uncertain tax
positions, including an evaluation of the technical merits of the uncertain tax
positions. • We tested the reasonableness of management's judgments regarding
the future resolution of the uncertain tax positions, including an evaluation of
the technical merits of the uncertain tax positions. We tested the
reasonableness of management's judgments regarding the future resolution of the
uncertain tax positions, including an evaluation of the technical merits of the
uncertain tax positions. •For those uncertain tax positions that had not been
effectively settled, we evaluated whether management had appropriately
considered new information that could significantly change the recognition,
measurement or disclosure of the uncertain tax positions. • For those uncertain
tax positions that had not been effectively settled, we evaluated whether
management had appropriately considered new information that could significantly
change the recognition, measurement or disclosure of the uncertain tax
positions. For those uncertain tax positions that had not been effectively
settled, we evaluated whether management had appropriately considered new
information that could significantly change the recognition, measurement or
disclosure of the uncertain tax positions. •We evaluated the reasonableness of
management's estimates by considering how tax law, including statutes,
regulations and case law, impacted management's judgments. • We evaluated the
reasonableness of management's estimates by considering how tax law, including
statutes, regulations and case law, impacted management's judgments. We
evaluated the reasonableness of management's estimates by considering how tax
law, including statutes, regulations and case law, impacted management's
judgments. /s/ /s/ July 27, 2023 July 27, 2023 We have served as the Company's
auditor since 1983. We have served as the Company's auditor since 1983. 98 98
PART II PART II Item 9, 9A Item 9, 9A ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH
ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND
DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOU NTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Not
applicable. Not applicable. ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES ITEM 9A. CONTROLS
AND PROCEDURES Under the supervision and with the participation of our
management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
we have evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as
required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b) as of the end of the period covered by
this report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures
are effective. Under the supervision and with the participation of our
management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
we have evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as
required by Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(b) as of the end of the period covered by
this report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer have concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures
are effective. REPORT OF MANAGEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
REPORT OF MANAGEMENT ON INTERNAL C ONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING Our
management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting for the Company. Internal control over
financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of our financial reporting for external purposes in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records that in
reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions; providing
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for preparation
of our consolidated financial statements; providing reasonable assurance that
receipts and expenditures of company assets are made in accordance with
management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance that unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of company assets that could have a material
effect on our consolidated financial statements would be prevented or detected
on a timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute assurance that a
misstatement of our consolidated financial statements would be prevented or
detected. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company. Internal
control over financial reporting is a process to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of our financial reporting for external purposes in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. Internal control over financial reporting includes maintaining records
that in reasonable detail accurately and fairly reflect our transactions;
providing reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary for
preparation of our consolidated financial statements; providing reasonable
assurance that receipts and expenditures of company assets are made in
accordance with management authorization; and providing reasonable assurance
that unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of company assets that could
have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements would be
prevented or detected on a timely basis. Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute
assurance that a misstatement of our consolidated financial statements would be
prevented or detected. Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness
of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in
Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation,
management concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting was effective as of June 30, 2023. There were no changes in our
internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June 30, 2023
that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect,
our internal control over financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP has audited
our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2023; their report
is included in Item 9A. Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness
of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in
Internal Control – Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation,
management concluded that the Company’s internal control over financial
reporting was effective as of June 30, 2023. There were no changes in our
internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended June 30, 2023
that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect,
our internal control over financial reporting. Deloitte & Touche LLP has audited
our internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2023; their report
is included in Item 9A. 99 99 PART II PART II Item 9A Item 9A REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGIST ERED
PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of
Microsoft Corporation To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of
Microsoft Corporation Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Opinion on Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have audited the
internal control over financial reporting of Microsoft Corporation and
subsidiaries (the "Company") as of June 30, 2023, based on criteria established
in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the
Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of June 30, 2023, based on criteria established in
Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO. We have audited
the internal control over financial reporting of Microsoft Corporation and
subsidiaries (the "Company") as of June 30, 2023, based on criteria established
in Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). In our opinion, the
Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over
financial reporting as of June 30, 2023, based on criteria established in
Internal Control — Integrated Framework (2013) issued by COSO. We have also
audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial statements
as of and for the year ended June 30, 2023, of the Company and our report dated
July 27, 2023, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the consolidated financial
statements as of and for the year ended June 30, 2023, of the Company and our
report dated July 27, 2023, expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial
statements. Basis for Opinion Basis for Opinion The Company's management is
responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control
over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a
public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be
independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U. S. federal
securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and
Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. The Company's management is responsible for
maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a
public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be
independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U. S. federal
securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and
Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audit in accordance with the
standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit
included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial
reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable
basis for our opinion. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards
of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed
risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our
opinion. Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. A
company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2)
provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of
the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of
its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect
misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of
changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or
procedures may deteriorate. /s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP /s/ D ELOITTE & T OUCHE
LLP Seattle, Washington Seattle, Washington July 27, 2023 July 27, 2023 100 100
PART II, III PART II, III Item 9B, 9C, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 Item 9B, 9C, 10, 11,
12, 13, 14 ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION During the
three months ended June 30, 2023, none of our directors or officers (as defined
in Rule 16a-1(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) informed us of the
adoption or termination of a “Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement” or “non-Rule
10b5-1 trading arrangement, ” as defined in Item 408 of Regulation S-K. During
the three months ended June 30, 2023, none of our directors or officers (as
defined in Rule 16a-1(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) informed us of
the adoption or termination termination termination termination of a “ Rule
10b5-1 Rule 10b5-1 Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement ” or “ non-Rule 10b5-1 non-
Rule 10b5-1 non-Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement, ” as defined in Item 408 of
Regulation S-K. ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT
INSPECTIONS ITEM 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN J URISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT
INSPECTIONS Not applicable. Not applicable. PART III PART III ITEM 10.
DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ITEM 10. DIRECTORS,
EXECUTIVE OFF ICERS, AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A list of our executive officers
and biographical information appears in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-K.
Information about our directors may be found under the caption “Our Director
Nominees” in our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held December 7, 2023 (the “Proxy Statement”). Information about our Audit
Committee may be found under the caption “Board Committees” in the Proxy
Statement. That information is incorporated herein by reference. A list of our
executive officers and biographical information appears in Part I, Item 1 of
this Form 10-K. Information about our directors may be found under the caption
“Our Director Nominees” in our Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held December 7, 2023 (the “Proxy Statement”). Information
about our Audit Committee may be found under the caption “Board Committees” in
the Proxy Statement. That information is incorporated herein by reference. We
have adopted the Microsoft Finance Code of Professional Conduct (the “finance
code of ethics”), a code of ethics that applies to our Chief Executive Officer,
Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer, and other finance
organization employees. The finance code of ethics is publicly available on our
website at https: //aka. ms/FinanceCodeProfessionalConduct. If we make any
substantive amendments to the finance code of ethics or grant any waiver,
including any implicit waiver, from a provision of the code to our Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, or Chief Accounting Officer, we will
disclose the nature of the amendment or waiver on that website or in a report on
Form 8-K. We have adopted the Microsoft Finance Code of Professional Conduct
(the “finance code of ethics”), a code of ethics that applies to our Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer, and other
finance organization employees. The finance code of ethics is publicly available
on our website at https: //aka. ms/FinanceCodeProfessionalConduct https: //aka.
ms/FinanceCodeProfessionalConduct. If we make any substantive amendments to the
finance code of ethics or grant any waiver, including any implicit waiver, from
a provision of the code to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer,
or Chief Accounting Officer, we will disclose the nature of the amendment or
waiver on that website or in a report on Form 8-K. ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION ITEM 11. EXECUTI VE COMPENSATION The information in the Proxy
Statement set forth under the captions “Director Compensation, ” “Named
Executive Officer Compensation, ” “Compensation Committee Report, ” and, if
required, “Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation, ” is
incorporated herein by reference. The information in the Proxy Statement set
forth under the captions “Director Compensation, ” “Named Executive Officer
Compensation, ” “Compensation Committee Report, ” and, if required,
“Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation, ” is incorporated
herein by reference. ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF
CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWN ERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The
information in the Proxy Statement set forth under the captions “Stock Ownership
Information, ” “Principal Shareholders” and “Equity Compensation Plan
Information” is incorporated herein by reference. The information in the Proxy
Statement set forth under the captions “Stock Ownership Information, ”
“Principal Shareholders” and “Equity Compensation Plan Information” is
incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED
TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND
RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE The information set forth in the
Proxy Statement under the captions “Director Independence Guidelines” and
“Certain Relationships and Related Transactions” is incorporated herein by
reference. The information set forth in the Proxy Statement under the captions
“Director Independence Guidelines” and “Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions” is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT
FEES AND SERVICES ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOU NTANT FEES AND SERVICES Information
concerning fees and services provided by our principal accountant, Deloitte &
Touche LLP (PCAOB ID No. ), appears in the Proxy Statement under the headings
“Fees Billed by Deloitte & Touche” and “Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval
of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of Independent Auditor” and is
incorporated herein by reference. Information concerning fees and services
provided by our principal accountant, Deloitte & Touche LLP (PCAOB ID No. ),
appears in the Proxy Statement under the headings “Fees Billed by Deloitte &
Touche” and “Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible
Non-Audit Services of Independent Auditor” and is incorporated herein by
reference. 101 101 PART IV PART IV Item 15 Item 15 PART IV PART IV ITEM 15.
EXHIBIT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES ITEM 15. EXHIBIT AND FINANC IAL
STATEMENT SCHEDULES (a)Financial Statements and Schedules (a) Financial
Statements and Schedules Financial Statements and Schedules The financial
statements are set forth under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, as indexed
below. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they either are not
required, not applicable, or the information is otherwise included. The
financial statements are set forth under Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, as
indexed below. Financial statement schedules have been omitted since they either
are not required, not applicable, or the information is otherwise included.
(b)Exhibit Listing (b) Exhibit Listing Exhibit Listing 102 102 PART IV PART IV
Item 15 Item 15 103 103 PART IV PART IV Item 15 Item 15 104 104 PART IV PART IV
Item 15 Item 15 105 105 PART IV PART IV Item 15 Item 15 106 106 PART IV PART IV
Item 15 Item 15 * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or
arrangement. * Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or
arrangement. ** Furnished, not filed. ** Furnished, not filed. 107 107 PART IV
PART IV Item 16 Item 16 ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY ITEM 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY
None. None. 108 108 SIGNATURES SIGNAT URES Pursuant to the requirements of
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned; thereunto
duly authorized, in the City of Redmond, State of Washington, on July 27, 2023.
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned; thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Redmond,
State of Washington, on July 27, 2023. Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of Registrant and in the capacities indicated on
July 27, 2023. Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
Registrant and in the capacities indicated on July 27, 2023. 109 109